{"review":"This game's greatest strength is its replayability and sustaining value. It may be one of the highest hour-to-dollar ratios in single-player gaming.  If you are the kind of gamer who reacts to a difficult challenge with a determination to conquer it, you will love the way this game continues to challenge, and challenge, and challenge further.   If you are the kind of gamer who goes into a game looking for suprises and discovery, you will be continuously pleased every time you find a cool new room, a game-changing item, crazy synergies between those items, and the games plaethora of well hidden secrets.   If you are the kind of gamer who loves to hunt achievements, this game will not only please you with the gargantuan number of achievements on display, but also in how the game integrates them with the core gameplay, rewarding you with in-game unlocks for almost every single achievement.  If you are the kind of gamer who just wants a game they can turn on whenever, wherever, and enjoy a short but enjoyable gaming session, this game is perfect. If you are in this category, buy it on the Switch if you have one.  If you are the kind of gamer that likes more casual experiences, that becomes very disheartened by dying or losing, is squeamish around gross imagery, or who doesn't want to have to look things up online, then you might find this game doesn't suit your tastes. One feature common amoung content rich games like this, Don't Starve or Minecraft is that they are often very hard to penetrate due to their emphasis on experimentation and unexplained features, requiring wiki usage, and other McMillen games like Super Meat Boy often deter those that justifiably claim \"This game is too hard\" or \"This game is gross!\" While very fun and rewarding to the kinds of gamers listed above, and highly recommended, do beware that if you are in this category, I do not recommend this game.","hours":279.8,"funny_percent":0.021148036253776436,"helpful_percent":0.9639140651225243}
{"review":"After 2000 hours played (with a few hundred on the original Flash version) I guess I should write a review.  This is a good game. I think you should buy it.","hours":3005.4,"funny_percent":0.5009225092250923,"helpful_percent":0.9059040590405905}
{"review":"The Most fun you can legally have with a naked child","hours":1441.7,"funny_percent":3.1455748552522746,"helpful_percent":0.8726220016542597}
{"review":"This is everything a remake should be: More items, more characters, more challenges, more bosses... More everything. My computer is old and chugs with games like Minecraft and Team Fortress 2, but Isaac: Rebirth runs silky smooth.   Three words:  Buy. This. Game.","hours":648.6,"funny_percent":0.07028531663187196,"helpful_percent":0.9457202505219207}
{"review":"My first attempts at The Binding of Isaac resulted in me repeated dying in the first room I entered. Almost 2000 hours later in game I can now sometimes survive as the lost. Despite the frustration of dying A LOT, the challenge of getting further and further in game was what kept me returning day after day. Two years later it is still my most commonly played game.  With this many hours of enjoyment I feel like a review is long overdue.    Music - 5/5  I absolutely love the soundtrack for this game and it complements the theme of the game. Each floor has it's own unique tracks and ambient sounds which give a great atmosphere.   Standout tracks: Delirum, Diptera Sonata & Ascension (Chest Fight)    Graphics - 3/5  This is very much down to personal taste - I originally played the flash version of Binding of Isaac and once Rebirth came out with the pixel graphics I immediately hated it. It felt like a lot of the charm was gone. The art style has grown on me over time but I do still miss the old graphics.     Playability - 5/5  Giving this game any less than a 10 for me is impossible. In about 2000 hours I've run into a couple of bugs but rarely have they caused me to lose a run. The only memorable on is when using Dead Cat on a Sacrifice room it caused the game to crash but I've not had that occur in quite some time.   The controls were initally hard for me to get used to but they are simple and you do get used to them fairly quickly. I use a keyboard but have attempted the game with a controller but I found it a bit odd after having played so much of the game with the keyboard. Some friends have found it easier with controller when starting but I suppose that comes down to personal preference.    TOTAL: 13/15  The Binding of Isaac is fun (albeit, hard at times) game with a lot of charm. It's given me quite literally thousands of hours of enjoyment.","hours":2374.7,"funny_percent":0.048027444253859346,"helpful_percent":0.9451114922813036}
{"review":"Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is a remake of Binding of Isaac with new graphics, new mechanics, new monsters, new items and every aspect of the game has been enhanced. New content has been added everywhere possible, the game feels infinitely smoother, is so much nicer to play, and has many more hours of content to keep you satisfied for longer. If you enjoyed the original Binding of Isaac, Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is going to be infinitely better and I can promise instant satisfaction. This review will consist of comparisons between the original and Rebirth, what’s good, what’s bad, possible changes and just an overall look at various aspects of the game including everything that comes to mind. It is often a bit rambly, because I talk extensively about every detail I like and every component that irks me. For a full recommendation of the game and a continuation of the review, visit the last paragraph.  A basic introduction to Binding of Isaac overall is an attempt to run away from your Mother who is trying to kill you. You run into the basement, where you find various items which can be beneficial, harmful or simply useless to your overall goal of surviving. You shoot the enemies with your tears to kill them while running away from them and their tears to avoid taking damage. Once you die, that run is over. The game is perma-death, so you have to start again from scratch. The game is also absolutely disgusting. There isn’t too much blood, but knowing that these monsters have lived in your dusty old basement, been transformed into ugly mutilated creatures and that this is what becomes of you as you take pills and pick up items is gross. Once you get past the horrid enemies, the game is pretty simple and is extremely fun to all who like the challenge of a game like this..   This game has a bunch of different characters, all of which have different unique aspects. Some characters are easier to play than others, which in the eyes of many people, makes those characters more fun. I wish the characters were more balanced, but it’s very rarely possible to have 10 different characters you can play as that all play with equal difficulty. There are bound to be some easier, more fun and more interesting characters, and that’s what makes them unique. Something that’s missing from the classes however, is all the characters being unique. Some of the playstyles of the characters feel too similar, and some of the things that made characters unique in the original Binding of Isaac have disappeared in Rebirth.  Samson no longer starts with a soul heart along with 1 red heart, an interesting aspect of Samson that made him a challenge in the original game. Rather, he starts with 3 red hearts, probably to accompany the change in the item of Bloody Lust making it a damage output increase relative to the amount of damage taken for the entire floor. This is an interesting change, but it makes Samson more of a tanky character, similar to Magdalene, rather than the weaker character with more potential. I believe a better change would have been to give Samson a spacebar item and keep his stats the same as they are in the original, and the effect of Bloody Lust relative to the amount of kills you get while still maintaining it’s effect over the floor.  Lucky Foot, the item that made Cain a fun character to play in the original, has been significantly nerfed, making Cain a character that lacks a truly unique aspect. While Lucky Foot is still a luck up, a single luck increase does not have much of an effect as most items that use luck to work require a lot of it to work extremely well. If the Lucky Foot could still make the Fortune Machine work all the time, or at least most of the time, and increase the luck stat by multiple points rather than just one, Cain would be a much more interesting character to play and much more unique.  A good addition to Rebirth is that all the stats are finally given good use and are recorded. The luck stat is used in everything it should, with a bunch of items now using the luck stat to perform more efficiently, all methods of gambling in the game being affected by luck and it now being shown on the pause screen when you press escape. They’ve also shown all the stats, including shot speed and luck as previously mentioned, on the pause screen, which were not there in the original game.  There are some enemies in the game that have been made impossible to fight. Bloat is a boss that shoots brimstone like lasers out of his eyes, which wasn’t too bad in the original but in this game there is no ‘tell’ (something that means he’s going to do a certain attack) for when he is going to shoot it, and before you can move out of the way, there is a laser and you’ve been hit. The same thing applies to the Lumps in the womb and the Mom eyes in the red champion Mom fight, which shoot instantly upon popping up and you have no time to react to the high speed shot. There are a lot of enemies that do similar things, and still a lot of rooms remain where it’s almost impossible to leave without taking damage.  Something I noticed that’s new in Rebirth is that everything from the original now has an equivalent. Every form of fly-related enemy now has a spider version that does the same thing, and a lot of similar aspects like that. It makes the game more uniform, because now there are a lot more interesting spiders which were missing from the original game and a lot of new versions of both flies and spiders which add a lot to the challenge of learning new elements of the game.  Easily one of the best new additions in Rebirth is the ability to save your progress in a run. You can stop it at any time, close the game, and start again from where you left off at a later point. You can’t start another run while in the middle of a previous one without overriding the previous run’s data, but it’s still an extremely useful feature, since in the previous game we had to leave the game running to continue a round of BoI.  One of the more fun new additions is rooms of varying sizes. They aren’t anything like a random size, but they can now be a single normal room, as all the rooms were in the original BoI, they can be double rooms extended either horizontally or vertically, and they can even be quadruple rooms that extend in both directions. The animation for travelling through such rooms can apparently cause motion sickness, and it can be turned off by changing something in one of the files (I’m not quite sure what). Personally, I quite like the animation, and it makes moving around large rooms extremely fun.  Overall, this game is easily worth the $15 if you liked the original Binding of Isaac, and at the time of the making of this review there was no DLC released (if there ever will be any), so that might be added in the future. This is an action packed perma-death roguelike with infinite replayability and hundreds of hours of gameplay to unlock all the achievements and secrets. As Steam limits the size of community reviews, you can find the rest of my review here[1drv.ms].  In the rest of the review, I go over: Synergies Chained/Boarded Rooms Ludovico Technique Boss Rush rooms Multiplayer ","hours":356.2,"funny_percent":0.06683804627249357,"helpful_percent":0.9408740359897172}
{"review":"+ The amount of stuff to grab and to do, insane + New engine blows the old Isaac out of the water (fire effects, shadows, etc.) + Game is amazingly smooth and clean + Too many achievements to count for + Too many hours spent in perspective + Best poop simulator EVER!  - Incompatible with social life outside the PC. - UPDATE: Had the music on the \"+\" but moved it here. Sounded incredible on the first run but on the long run it's kinda grating. Makes me miss Danny's amazing soundtrack.","hours":263.4,"funny_percent":0.06699346405228758,"helpful_percent":0.9150326797385621}
{"review":"If you get into this game you will no longer find it weird when people say things like 'I hope I'll get proptosis' 'Cancer! Great!' 'I'm not sure if I wanna pick up dead cat' 'Headless baby, it's an okay pickup' 'I should be able to kill mom' there's like 350 items, lots of bosses, enemies, synergies,characters,challenges and it has a lot of replay value, all that cool stuff you want in a video game  the soundtrack is nice too","hours":340.4,"funny_percent":1.5456081081081081,"helpful_percent":0.9155405405405406}
{"review":"1 And it came to pass after these things, that Edmund McMillen did tempt gamers, and said unto them, gamers: and he said, Behold, here I am.  2 And he said, Take now thy cash, thine only cash till next pay period, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Steam or Sony; and offer it there for 10 to 15 USD (dependent upon loyalty discount), offering upon one of the consoles which I will tell thee of.  3 And the gamers rose up early in the morning, and saddled their Honda Civics, and took two new Taco Bell Breakfast Crunchwraps, and their cash, and rose up, and went unto the place of which Edmund had told them.  4 Then on what felt like the billionth day the gamers lifted up their eyes, and saw the place afar off.  5 And they said unto their Crunchwraps, Abide ye here with the Honda Civics; and I and the cash will go yonder and worship, and come again to you.  6 And the gamers took their cash; and they went both of them together.  7 And the cash spake unto the gamers, their owners, and said, My owners: and they said, Here am I, my cash. And he said, Behold the cart, full: but where is the cash for offering?  8 And the gamers said, My cash, Edmund McMillen will provide himself cash for an offering: so they went both of them together, because mediums of exchange are incapable of critical thinking.  9 And they came to the place which Edmund had told them of; and the gamers chilled there, and placed the order, and bound their cash and laid him on the altar of purchase.  10 And the gamers stretched forth their hands, and inched their cursors towards confirmation.  11 And Tyrone Rodriguez called unto gamers out of Nicalis, and said, gamers, gamers: and he said, Here am I.  12 And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the cash, neither do thou any thing unto it: for now I know that thou fearest cancellation; seeing thou hast not withheld thy cash, thine only cash for this pay period.  13 And the gamers lifted up their eyes, and looked, and behold behind him a northern lion: and the gamers went and took the northern lion, and criticized him for taking Mom's Knife, in stead of their cash.  14 And the gamers called that game Rebirth: as it is said to this day, In the mount of Indie it shall be seen.  The Binding of Isaac, released back in 2011, is a rogue-like indie darling that wears its Zelda influences on its sleeves. You play as Isaac, a young boy living with his mother. His mother, convinced she is being spoken to by God, must offer Isaac up to prove her love and devotion to Him. Isaac, in an understandable act of defiant self-interest, descends into the basement to escape. It's there that the game begins. You fight all manner of monstrosities down below, ranging from hideous pin worms, cleft-lipped disembodied heads, physical manifestations of the Seven Deadly Sins, and the Horsemen of the Apocalypse.   You start fighting the denizens of your basement with your tears – yes, this game is a strange one – but as you progress you'll find unlockables (in stores, treasure rooms, arcades, etc.) that change your tear effects, sometimes drastically (and sometimes your appearance). To win you have to juggle health, bombs, keys, and money. You'll have to find secret rooms (and secreter rooms!). And of course, you'll have to fight... well, I won't spoil THAT. Suffice it to say you'll have some options. As you play, succeed, and succumb, you'll unlock items and characters for each subsequent playthrough. On top of that, items you find and unlock, enemies you encounter, and floor layouts all change with each descent – effectively making every run unique. The Binding of Isaac is one of the most highly replayable games around, with many players logging in hundreds if not thousands of hours.  It's a troubling trend lately that games have been getting the HD rerelease treatment so quickly after initial launch. The Last of Us, Tomb Raider, Sleeping Dogs, Metro – all have come out recently, all have had rereleases in fairly quick succession. It's no secret that gamers are suckers for a good dose of nostalgia, and that we're willing to pay top dollar for games we loved years ago that haven't necessarily weathered the passing of time so well. Now publishers are testing gaming goodwill with the constant stream of HD ports, definitive editions, remasters, and remakes.  It's been three years since Isaac's first appearance, and now he's back in The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth. And just like way back in 2011 when he first burst onto the scene, he's stolen the show yet again. I've explained the core mechanics and features of the game in a previous paragraph, so I won't get all redundant on you. Instead I'll tell you what's new in Rebirth. New enemies, regular and boss types. New floor layouts. Bigger floors. New items. New trinkets (items you carry with you that result in an effect – Pink Eye gives you poison shots, Cancer increases number of tears, etc.). New challenge runs. More item synergies. More characters to play as. “Seeds” that allow you to choose a particular run. Hard mode for you masochists. Couch drop in/drop out co-op, ingeniously designed where a second player can take health from the first player and becomes a unique familiar, providing backup until death (as long as you have health to spare, you can respawn). Controller support. New soundtrack from Matthias Bossi and Jon Evans. More secrets. The ability to save. Chocolate ♥♥♥♥♥♥s.   …  Okay, not that last bit.   I could go on. Needless to say they took The Binding of Isaac and its DLC, Wrath of the Lamb, and compiled it into a single rerelease. Then they went and gave it a new splash of paint and hundreds of hours of content. Graphics are spectacular and detailed, the style is lovingly Zelda inspired, the music is fresh and exhilarating, enemies pop upon death, viscerally gratifying... it's truly a delight. If I have a minor niggle, it's that Rebirth feels kind of floaty compared to Vanilla Isaac, a little too fast – but that just might take some getting used to. It certainly hasn't deterred me. For players old and new Rebirth is at once familiar and exotic, and I predict that regardless of prior experience with Isaac you'll find yourself experiencing some gaming de ja vu. It really, truly is a gamer's game; a loving homage to why we picked up controllers in the first place.  But half the fun, my uninitiated friends, is discovering all this for yourselves... the bosses (and tactics required to take them down), the items, the secrets. It's a challenging game, I won't sugarcoat it. But pressing forward and beating that first boss, getting to a new level, glimpsing the final boss... all of these milestones are as rewarding as gaming experience get, period. And once you start at it, you won't stop. That's what those save files are for.   This is the indie game of the year. This is the only indie title you really need to buy in 2014... for fans of the series, for those unfamiliar, for sentient animals, and for any extraterrestrials and apparitions within earshot. You owe it to yourself to buy this, a title retro and modern all at once. This puts all of those HD rereleases, definitive editions, and remakes to shame. This is truly a rebirth; for indie games, for players, for devs and publishers... for gaming. The bar has been raised.  So what are you waiting for? Repent, every one of you, in the name of RNGesus for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of Rebirth.  ","hours":901.5,"funny_percent":0.36160188457008247,"helpful_percent":0.8633686690223793}
{"review":"I love this game, alot. It completely blows the original out of the water. Here's some pros/cons: Pros: -More Playable characters. -More Bosses -More Items -8 Billion seeded runs! -Better mechanics -A whole load of bug fixes. -A massive amount of playtime. -New Challenges -Boss rush -16 Endings! -Easier to break >:)   Cons: -The Keeper..  In all seriousness, this is one of my favourite games of all time. Fantastic, active and passionate community, Northernlion's videos are what keeps me warm at night. Incredible fun, highly recommended.","hours":449.2,"funny_percent":0.7030567685589519,"helpful_percent":0.9650655021834061}
{"review":"If you like naked children mutating and injecting various chemicals into themselves, killing angels for a key, and selling your soul to satan himself for a dead cat, this is the game for you.","hours":314.5,"funny_percent":0.5322812051649928,"helpful_percent":0.8680057388809183}
{"review":"I hate the enemies I hate the bosses I hate the rooms I hate the items I hate this game I can't stop playing 10/10","hours":376,"funny_percent":1.0419790104947526,"helpful_percent":0.8455772113943029}
{"review":"Disclaimer: This game has a steep learning curve. The basis of this game is knowledge, the community spreads their knowledge, almost making a meta. The Binding of Isaac is a very fun game for me and I love it's art style. That being said here are some pros and cons:  Pros: 1. Precise gameplay (in terms of movement, shooting and the bullet hell aspects.) 2. Wide variety of bosses 3. Randomized everything! 4. Great soundtrack! 5. Wide variety of characters 6. (With Afterbirth) Interesting greed mode with cool final boss 7. Great community!  Cons: 1. Very hard to memorize what _____ Item does. (maybe its just me, idk) 2. Ouch! Alot of bullet hell aspects. (Im bad at those)  Anyway, the cons are pretty much because those are my personal issues with it. Believe me, if you want replayability and a good game to stream/ play through blind then this is it!","hours":108.6,"funny_percent":0.057692307692307696,"helpful_percent":0.9471153846153846}
{"review":"The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth Is One Of The Best Indie Game Of All Time!  The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth Is A Indie Game Made By Ed McMillan (The Same Person That Made Super Meat Boy, Gish And The End Is Nigh), That Is Great Fun To Play And Then Complete (Yep I Put Money On It That You Will TRY To 100%)  PROS: Hundreds Of Items (504)  100+ Trinkets (122)  Loads Of Unlocks  Hundreds Of Hours Play Time  Lovely Art Style  CONS:  Hard To Get Into (To Learn All The Items/Trinkets/Enemies) Frustrating (You Will See What I Mean) Shoop Da Whoop (JK)  Summary:  A Very Fun Indie Game, Made By The GOD Of Indie Games ED McMillan, With Hundreds IF NOT Thousands Of Hours Play Time!  \"7/10 FUN BUT ANNOYING\"","hours":173.2,"funny_percent":0.08016877637130802,"helpful_percent":0.9282700421940928}
{"review":"If you enoyed The Binding of Isaac, you will absolutely love this game. BoI was one of my favourite games from the past few years, and I never thought it could be so much better. Well, it is. Rebirth takes the addictive formula from the flash version of BoI/WotL and made it even more satisfying and addictive this time. The controls are so smooth, the graphics are spot on, and you can tell how much love was put into this game. I simply cannot put this game down, and I highly recommend picking this game up, it is worth every single penny.  *Updated for Steam Awards*  I nominated BOI:R for the 'Just 5 More Minutes Awards' because everytime I play I find it hard to stop, and \"One more run wouldn't hurt\" ends up being 5 hours.","hours":212.4,"funny_percent":0.03070175438596491,"helpful_percent":0.9254385964912281}
{"review":"I played it just a little bit, I think it is ok. 69/10 best game for eternity!!!","hours":2299.8,"funny_percent":0.1793103448275862,"helpful_percent":0.8931034482758621}
{"review":"The Finding of Items: Restart.","hours":286.6,"funny_percent":2.3985943775100402,"helpful_percent":0.821285140562249}
{"review":"Drop money out of poop Sell your life to Satan Cry over monsters that live in your basement Enter in your mom's utero by a hole in the ground Kill yourself as a fetus inside her Defeat the most terrible angels and demons Get killed by a spider  Ten out of ten ","hours":795.8,"funny_percent":1.7538200339558574,"helpful_percent":0.8174872665534805}
{"review":"'When life gives you lemons, reroll.' Fortune Teller Machine __________________________________________  Introduction  At first I did not know what to think of the 'Binding of Isaac: Rebirth': I've been attacked by smiling piles of poop and killed them with my tears. Meanwhile I was picking up several toxic substances and organs before I died quite soon to the creepy version of 'Snake'. My thoughts were pretty much:  \"What is this? Why... oh my god, wtf. Ah, c'mon one more try.\"  Approximately several hundred deaths later (killed by: poop, fire, flies, severed heads, living hearts, creepy huge spiders, needles, eyeballs, headless torsos and other stuff right from a creepy horror story) I can definitely say: This game is awesome and I can't stop playing it. It's probably the best rogue-like that I've played so far and even after 60 hours I've seen nearly nothing of the content. There's just so much stuff to do and an insane amount of unlockables and secrets to discover. (Edit: It took me 269 hours to finish everything and getting every item at least once. Oh boy, that was an experience full of hate and love. Definitely an emotional rollercoaster. The Lost vs. Mega Satan. Nope. Won't do this again...)  The games' concept consists of random dungeons and items, a hard difficulty with permanent death and many secrets that players will stumble upon on their journey through little Isaac's basement. These aspects can be found in many other games as well, however here all of it is being combined so extremly well that it creates a game in what everything fits together perfectly. There are several characters with different stats and starting items, a ton of items, trinkets and stuff that can be found and unlocked (with their synergies they decide the run as they either make you a looser or a superhero), dozens of different room types and areas, lots of creepy enemies, bosses and many traps and secrets.   In addition most of the content is only unlocked after playing through the game multiple times. Then it's possible that the former endboss isn't the real endboss anymore and that you can access even more areas after its death. Moreover there are also special challenges, a hard mode, different endings and stuff like e.g. curses that randomly appear during a game and make everything even more uncomfortable for our little 'hero'.  In 'The Binding of Isaac' every run you do really feels unique and that is what I really love about the game: It never feels repetitive. __________________________________________  Visuals and Audio  In addition I like the concept and style that is somewhere between a freaky horror version of a child's book and the insane nightmare of a mad man - just in the super cute version mixed with some creepy sounds.   The music is really catchy and the pixelated graphics are very well done, support the atmosphere and make the game seem even dirtier (for the pixel-haters: this filter can be turned off). The game is based around several names, items and stories from the bible and christianity and the main story is about a mother who wants to sacrifice her son to god. I also have to admit that the intro sequence was quite interesting and I really liked all the subtle story hints. They are like different puzzle pieces that fit together and every run adds another element to the whole picture. __________________________________________  Contra  Talking about the negative points you definitely have to face one fact: some stuff of the game can be an instant turn-off for people. The 'cute but gory ickyness' of the game is definitely very special.  And it's really hard. Okay it's a rogue-like, they tend to be hard, but even for their standards this game is a tough cookie. Even more if you plan on getting all the achievements. However I don't really care about this, I just start my character, hope for some good items, get wrecked on a boss (or a regular enemy/fire/needles...) and then I just start over. And all the time it gets a bit easier as you understand the enemies, items and the boss' movements (don't worry you'll still die a lot though...). (Well, in the end I cared about the achievements and spent way more hours in this game than I would have ever though...) __________________________________________  Conclusion  So all in all I can definitely recommend this game. From my point of every part of it fits together perfectly and the game provides a ton of fun. The new DLC 'Afterbirth' adds even more enemies, items, synergies and modes to the main game, boosting the time for unlocking everything to insane heights. There is enough stuff to do for several hundred of hours. If you don't mind the 'weird' style and the special humour the game is definitely at least a 9 out of 10.  And let us be honest: 'The Binding of Isaac' is the only game where it's at least kind of okay to scream things like:  'YES, I got cancer!!!' or  'Sweet I found an injection with green looking acid! Now my tears are green and melt through poop, bones and these headless freaks!'  or 'Great, this pile of sh*t dropped a lunch and some hearts!'  ...but probably it would be better NOT to call out loud the names of all the items you get. Sentences like 'I got a...  Headless Baby The head of my Dead Cat Bob's Bladder Stem Cells  (...) now I can kill my mother!!! Die, die, die! *insert insane laugh here*'   ...could end with some pretty freaked out people calling the police and you spending the night in a dirty little cell. Well, it may at least have a trap door and a basement...","hours":278.9,"funny_percent":0.6812227074235808,"helpful_percent":0.9126637554585153}
{"review":"After playing this for a little while, it ALREADY blows away all my expectations. As someone that has 500+ hours in the original, they were very high to begin with. The music is FANTASTIC, I still can't get over it. You have a difficulty option now, you can chose to play on normal or hard. This is great, as when you played the first sometimes it got too easy with everything unlocked! You have save files now, and can resume a run where you left off. No more leaving the game running for hours as you go to the store. Full controller support, dunno about a lot of different controllers, but it works flawlessly with an xbox 360 controller. You have a lot of new exciting items and power-ups. Things that were never possible in the first. More challenges, different room sizes and types, the list goes on. I had very high hopes for this, and already this gets everything right, even better than I had expected in the first place. This is a must, even if you didn't like the first binding of isaac, since it fixes a LOT of issues that most people had with the first. Highly recommended 10/10","hours":1295.7,"funny_percent":0.012875536480686695,"helpful_percent":0.9098712446351931}
{"review":"A drug. Simply addicting. A masterpiece you can't miss!  -Unlimited replayability -Simple and cool graphic -Amazing gameplay  Just try it and you won't regret!","hours":988.6,"funny_percent":0.14009661835748793,"helpful_percent":0.9033816425120773}
{"review":"Not too Bad.","hours":4811.9,"funny_percent":0.7928571428571428,"helpful_percent":0.8196428571428571}
{"review":"This game, man. It'll make you feel like a god as much as it'll make you feel like a one-legged homeless man who has wet himself.  Buy it. It's incredible.","hours":79.7,"funny_percent":0.498812351543943,"helpful_percent":0.833729216152019}
{"review":"The game where the Devil also accepts your credit card. 10/10","hours":640.4,"funny_percent":0.8672199170124482,"helpful_percent":0.7966804979253111}
{"review":"Finally a game with good christian values!","hours":242.4,"funny_percent":2.198186528497409,"helpful_percent":0.8005181347150259}
{"review":"ok heres a real review. Now I haven't played the first game that much, but I could already see all of the great improvements. Pros: -It's not laggy -You can see the enemies easier -It's easier to hear that you got hurt -A lot more items -More characters -Music is higher quality -Overall better performance -Improved animations -If you need to leave to go somewhere you can save by just quitting. -Multiple save files so if you share your steam with someone or just want to restart without losing progress you can do so. Cons: -memes. There are still memes. 10/10","hours":91.9,"funny_percent":0.12698412698412698,"helpful_percent":0.8761904761904762}
{"review":"The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is a remastering of the original 2011 Binding of Isaac in short. The game play hearkens back to old school top-down 16-bit games. The most notable and recognizable being the Legend of Zelda titles for inspiration. In essence, the Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is a rouge-like RPG where you play as Isaac (or one of the other unlockable characters) and you must traverse the basement of your house to escape the wrath of your mother, who hears from the voice of God and is told that you must be sacrificed. This premise sets the tone of the game being very creepy and unsettling as you defend against all manners of your lost brothers, sisters, creatures, and other grotesque monstrosities. Eventually leading to a showdown with your own mother as well (and even beyond that if you get good at the game and carry on).  What makes the Binding the Isaac such a great title comes from it's solid game play elements. The game play itself is very easy to understand at first, but becomes very deep with the inclusion of the upgrades via the rogue-like elements (easy to understand + difficult to master + luck of the draw + perma-death = Isaac in a nutshell). In order to get far into a run, you will need upgrades, and a lot of them. Isaac by default will only be able to fire his tears at the enemies in only the four cardinal directions, but many different upgrades can alter his tears or give them new effects. This is what can make or break a run in Binding of Isaac. Be warned, not all the upgrades are positive, which adds to the rogue-like elements, as some are ultimately poor or are only used in certain situations and can ruin a run, resulting in failure (high risk and high reward situations are the nature of the game). It is the element of luck the drives you to start up another run, see what upgrades and item combinations you will encounter each time. In this remastering of Binding of Isaac, there is the heavy emphasis on item/upgrade synergy. Coming across interesting item combinations and seeing how they interact with one another can create those overpowered moments (Brimstone plus Tammy's Head for example creates a short Brimstone shots in all directions when Tammy's Head is used) that make you feel like a god within the game, or create a silly combination where you have to work twice as hard just to clear a room.  So what if you already have played the original Binding of Isaac, what should you expect this time around in the remastering? In short, a lot more when compared with the original. More items and upgrades have introduced into the item pool, new bosses and enemies to encounter (for better or worse), a whole new art style very reminiscent of Gameboy Advance titles (pixel art style with a pixel smoother option in the options menu for those who prefer not to look at rigid pixels), seeded run options, 2-player local co-op play, controller support with analog stick integration, new soundtrack, three save slots, new lighting effects, and well just more to be honest. The sheer amount that was added to the game is staggering when compared to the original. Even at the $15 USD price, it still feels well worth the investment. You can get several hours in just from doing a few runs and seeing how far you will get and what crazy item combinations you will come across, or what new items/characters you will unlock for later runs. It is a challenging game no doubt, but I will admit that having one of those moments where you just barely defeat final boss of your run with only one health bar left, is nothing short of gratifying. If you have any slight interest in the rogue-like genre, this is genuinely a great title to try and own.  Worth it?: Yes If on sale?: No question, yes Available on: Steam (PC/Mac/Linux), PS4, PSVita","hours":36.4,"funny_percent":0.01904761904761905,"helpful_percent":0.9095238095238095}
{"review":"I'd appreciate it if you checked out my blog, where I do reviews, giveaways, and more: https://gandhigaming.wordpress.com/   Binding of Isaac is one of my best purchases on Steam. $5 for hundreds of hours attempting to get at Mom's Heart again and again with randomly generated rooms and items. Really- what's not to like? To this day, I still play it and enjoy watching myself suffer the consequences of trying to kill Gurdy Jr. With Rebirth out, it should be no surprise that I pick this game up. Honestly, it took a little while, but I think Rebirth lived up to the hype. Close call, McMillen.  Graphics  The visuals were changed (Edmund McMillen didn't like the original art style) to 16 bit. Some may not like that, but I sure do. I didn't really adjust to the cartoon visuals and I'm also glad to see this change. The characters still look great, the items are cool looking too, nothing wrong with any of that. One thing I noticed that was a pretty major pro was the fact that the atmosphere finally looked darker and is what the original atmosphere should have been. The darkness with the occasonal cracks of light look great and perfectly match the mood. Honestly, I'm impressed with the visuals.  Gameplay  Okay, with the full controller support this game has, I freaked with joy. Now I don't have to use my handy Xbox 360 wireless controller for just Dark Souls, Skyrim, and Awesomenauts! Full controller support is a major pro for those (like myself) who use a controller a lot more often than keyboard and mouse. As for those who don't use a controller, I'm afraid I haven't tried without the controller yet. Anyway, the gameplay is much smoother than the first game. Although shooting took some time to adjust to, I got the hang of it and look at me now- beat Mom twice without taking a single heart of damage both times! Which brings me to the low point of the game- the balance this game attempts to offer is pretty messed up. Dingle is ridiculous. That thing is basically Gurdy Jr. when it comes to being unfair. It sprints faster than Gurdy Jr. sometimes and spawns enemies, too. I understand that Dingle is a solid idea when it comes to how Edmund McMillen's games are usually themed, but I think it would've been a better idea in The Caves instead. At the low point, I can kill Mom with little effort now. My recent encounter, well, I lost to her, but Azazel is a bit difficult to use if you're lacking the range that he desperately needs to win at life. That's basically the gameplay for Isaac. Not bad if you ignore the random difficulty spikes.  Story  Based off the biblical story with the same name, Binding of Isaac partially changes it but in a more video game approved fashion. Instead of the ram sacrifice, Mom (who replaces Abraham) still attempts to kill her son Isaac while he runs and hides in the basement he discovered in his room. I enjoy the game towards its end when you face the real final bosses personally. Not much to say here, but for a roguelike, Binding of Isaac: Rebirth has a pretty interesting story.  Audio  Okay, I'm saying this now. I was a huge fan of the original Isaac soundtrack. Especially the song \"My Innermost Apocalypse\". Anyway, the new soundtrack truthfully seemed downgraded to me. The songs aren't as catchy as they were before and the boss themes aren't as terrifying. Now don't get me wrong, I like the new normal boss theme as much as the original, but some like Mom don't sound as cool anymore. Same goes with The Caves. \"Sacrificial\" was overrated, so I'm glad that I don't have to listen to that awful garbage anymore. So far, The Depths has the coolest song, it perfectly matches the mood and atmosphere. The sound effects sound better in this version (come on, Isaac sounded like a 28 year old man-baby in the first game when he got hurt) and I see no flaws. So in the end, the songs are subpar, but the sound effects are pretty cool.  Replayability  Come on, anyone with eyes knows Rebirth has replayability. With all the randomness the game flawlessly executes, it should be no surprise people can log all these hours on to it with ease.  Verdict  I gave the preview for this game a 6.9. I called it \"above average.\" I said it would take work to top its original. Within that time period of me writing the preview and this review, the game changed for the better. Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is a worthy successor for the awesome roguelike and I can't wait to see where my journeys go next!  Graphics- 9.5/10 Gameplay- 7.5/10 Story- 7.0/10 Audio- 6.5/10 Replayability- 10/10  .:8.5/10:.  +Great replayability +Full controller support +Nice 16 bit visuals +Improved sound effects +Cool new items +Smoother gameplay  -Somewhat unbalanced -Subpar soundtrack","hours":27.4,"funny_percent":0.012254901960784314,"helpful_percent":0.821078431372549}
{"review":"So, this game is a remake The Binding Of Isaac released in 2011,I don't want to write a lot, so I will just wrte + and -.   + Isaac is back! +4 new unlockable characters +new rooms +pixel graphics (for pixel haters there is a filter) +LOTS of new items +new effects +new enemies +new challenges +new endings +and more new stuff  -in fullscreen game is too zoomed in -some bosses and enemies are worse the they were in original -MUSIC! New soundtrack is OK, but nobody will make as perfect indie game music as Danny...  So, If you like the best indie games, buy it.","hours":152.5,"funny_percent":0.007444168734491315,"helpful_percent":0.8337468982630273}
{"review":"More content, stability, variety, rooms, monsters, joyfully difficult, interesting small world of misery. Hard to find anything bad, game was just in development for long enough to be perfectly finished. Works nice both for short time killing and for long grinding.","hours":10.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9055555555555556}
{"review":"The original Binding of Isaac was released back in 2011 and was pretty much the effort of two or three people, the game on a chronically horrible Flash interface. The original is still pretty great.  However, comparing the original and the remastered Binding of Isaac is like the difference between a regular membrane keyboard and a mechanical keyboard. You won't notice the difference immediately, but it will stick in your mind if you go back to the original.   Rebirth plays much better in comparison via subtle changes to the formula. The main differences between the original and the remastered edition include 160+ new items, native gamepad support (thank jebus), a new set of gameplay and difficulty tweaks (Hard mode being a big tweak for cool kids who like to unlock more things on top of their already unlocked things), and the game engine running at 60FPS all times every times (except when you alt-tab to something else, I've noticed, but I'm not going to hit the developers for that).  It's a worthy addition to a classic, and I don't know if I can go back to playing the original now, since this supercedes it by a mile. Honestly, the only people I imagine who would complain about this are frustrated teenagers who don't get allowances and those awful pedantic ♥♥♥♥s on Steam who use the forums to complain about refunds every time the pre-orders don't get released on time.","hours":3.9,"funny_percent":0.047244094488188976,"helpful_percent":0.8582677165354331}
{"review":"I've got nearly 400 hours on the original Binding of Isaac. When I preordered Rebirth, it felt almost obligatory. It had so much to live up to! My thought process was, \"Well, I'm sure I'll at least get my money's worth, and that guy is welcome to some more of my money after the cost vs. enjoyment of the original.\"  IT IS PROBABLY EVEN BETTER THAN THE ORIGINAL. I'll rack up hundreds of hours on this one too, I'm sure. The game is cleaner and faster, you don't get shot in the foot by randoming the wrong items, and YOU CAN CONTINUE YOUR GAME. So now if you're in the middle of a good play and someone is like, \"Hey let's go out to dinner,\" you don't have to just leave the game running the entire time you're gone.  So yeah. Recommend.","hours":1581.9,"funny_percent":0.033112582781456956,"helpful_percent":0.9271523178807947}
{"review":"This game has enough content to keep you going for weeks if not months just to reach 100%, and even after that, you're stuck with a beatiful, fun, endlessly replayable game that runs at silky-smooth 60FPS on almost any machine.   That said, the game can and WILL kick your butt hard if you're not paying attention to what you're doing. However if you can play your cards right (sometimes literally), you can own the game and become death, the destroyer of floors.  If you enjoyed even a slight bit of the original, you'll be in love with the new game,  And let's not forget that the soundtrack is simply wicked, in all senses of the word.","hours":256.8,"funny_percent":0.05442176870748299,"helpful_percent":0.9251700680272109}
{"review":"A great remake of its original. Depend on your luck and dodging skills and you will be victorious. New bosses, new items, and a nice 16 bit look included with it, it's safe to say that this game is amazing.  9.5/10","hours":127.6,"funny_percent":0.009950248756218905,"helpful_percent":0.8706467661691543}
{"review":"Step 1: Have a run that makes you god. Step 2: Have 100 hours of bad runs. Step 3: Quit for a week or so. Step 4: Repeat 10/10","hours":617.2,"funny_percent":0.8930957683741648,"helpful_percent":0.8017817371937639}
{"review":"I went to devil room and saw a Brimstone, I took it and died.     But you ALWAYS take Brimstone.  11/10","hours":129.5,"funny_percent":1.6113744075829384,"helpful_percent":0.8578199052132701}
{"review":"Great improvment from the original. I don't see anything that the original has over this game other than like 2 songs.  Pros -Better graphics -Better soundtrack (for the most part) -More fps -More Characters, Bosses, Items, Floors, etc. -More synergies!!!! -Many more that I can't think of  Cons -The Lost","hours":523.4,"funny_percent":0.10377358490566038,"helpful_percent":0.8726415094339622}
{"review":"Isaac has some problems in his family. His mother, watching a religious TV program, decided to kill her son in sacrifice to God. The kid managed to jump into the basement, a network of catacombs, densely populated by a huge amount of monsters. And the only weapon he has are his tears.  In The Binding of Isaac Rebirth you clean room by room, collect bonuses, find hidden places and shops, and then defeat the boss and jump into the next door in the floor. A new level begins and it gets harder and harder. You do so a few times before meeting his mother, then Satan himself or someone else.  The Binding of Isaac is challenging, really difficult. The farther you get, the easier it is to die and then you have to start from the very beginning. But there are many items which help you to become stronger. So many that I even used the Isaac Wiki to get the full understanding of every item and situation in the game (it really helps!). One item teaches Isaac to jump (finally!), other causes tears or enemies to explode and hurt everyone around. You can upgrade your max HP (Hearts), the devil will sometimes reward you with the power of the dark side (wings and other strong abilities for some of your hearts). The style of play often changes radically in the middle of the race. You just scribbled tears in different directions, hardly finishing even the smallest creep and then you suddenly get a power-up that changes your whole gameplay and you kill even the hardest boss without any problems. But the thing is, it can be the other way round, too! It is also always interesting to see how every item affects Isaac, because every item changes his appearance, so each time he looks different: he acquires tumors, horns or a bloody grin, pulls mom's bra on his head or... something else.  Failure is a part of the process. Play, die, start again, play, die, again. But every time we get something new (achievements open new items), so you do not want to stop completely.   Rebirth added a lot of new enemies, bosses, items and secrets if you compare it with the original game. And this is good! Edmund McMillen and his colleagues made an excellent job. A game full of the most horrible fears, bitter tears of childhood and exciting ideas.   You can also play it with you friend locally. But it’s not the local multiplayer you’d expect. Instead of a full second hero your partner takes control of a little Ghost accompanying Isaac. It can't go through doors or pick up items, it can only help to do more dmg. I would like more, although it is not clear how anything else would fit into the current mechanics.  So all in all this game is really fantastic! - 10/10!  Click to get to my Curation Page","hours":181.8,"funny_percent":0.06474820143884892,"helpful_percent":0.9280575539568345}
{"review":"The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth, a remake of the flash game made by Edmund McMillen. A game I've been anticipating for a very long time. Everyone who doesn't have it might be wondering if it live up to the hype, is it better than the original? Is it a good game at all?   Absolutely.   Rebirth is an improvement on the original isaac in every single way imaginable. The art style, the gameplay, controller support, save files, everything you can think of is better in Rebirth. Its absolutely one of the best games I've ever played, and its only been 2 days! The game is everything I expected it to be and more. I can't say enough about how much of a pleasure it is to play this game. The original brought me into the genre of the roguelike/lite. And this one draws me in even more with all the incredible items and synergys.   I've heard people complain about the soundtrack, I really don't understand why. Its much better in my opinion, its more of a background ambient sound rather than an in your face track, and I find that fits this game incredibly well. The arcade and boss music is especially good. The only complaint that I've had issue with is keyboard problems occasionally, but its so minor and rarely affects anything, at least for me.   Rebirth is truely one of the best games I've played, and will probably be my game of the year. What are you waiting for?! Go pick up Rebirth and play the best rougelike to date.  Buy At Full Price ","hours":569.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9426229508196722}
{"review":"Things you should be careful about when talking about this game in public or even your friends in a skype call.   1)\"I killed mom!\" 2)\"HELL YEAH! I've got cancer!\" 3)\"Why are all these giant babies farting on me?\" 4)\"Now I could use this razor to activate my w h o r e!\" 5)\"God dammit! I didn't want to pick up the dead cat, now that bucket of lard I just ate was worthless!\" 6)\"Those little poops are so cute!\" 7)\"After I take this deal with the devil, I can have w h o r e permanently\" 8)\"Can't wait for afterbirth!\" 9)\"Mom is dead, its time to go inside her womb!\" 10)\"I'm not sure what's better, Mom's bra or Mom's pad?\" 11)\"Damn it! I accidently picked up the tick, now I can't get cancer!\" 12)\"Yay! More afterbirth is coming!\"  There are probably more but I'd never have the time to put them all into one review but I'm sure you will find the rest while playing.  (I might keep adding more over long periods of time and feel free to add more in the comments)  10/10 would say again","hours":423.3,"funny_percent":3.843220338983051,"helpful_percent":0.7966101694915254}
{"review":"I highly recommend this game to anyone with strong Christian values.","hours":165.5,"funny_percent":0.02304147465437788,"helpful_percent":0.7672811059907834}
{"review":"Using the skills i learned in The Binding of Isaac, I tried to kill my real life abusive mother with my tears, but that only made her hit me harder. Despite giving me false hope, the game is really good.  9/10","hours":439.4,"funny_percent":0.042868277474668745,"helpful_percent":0.7521434138737334}
{"review":"Great Game for wasting 10 minutes before you leave Great Game for wasting 10 hours instead of sleeping 10/10 doesnt cost $60","hours":174,"funny_percent":0.3192771084337349,"helpful_percent":0.8734939759036144}
{"review":"I haven't played this game all that much but it seems cool and you should buy it.","hours":5517.4,"funny_percent":1.1868131868131868,"helpful_percent":0.7939560439560439}
{"review":"This game does not hold your hand. Feel free to cry about it; maybe you'll do more damage.","hours":18.9,"funny_percent":0.7878787878787878,"helpful_percent":0.8666666666666667}
{"review":"It's fair to say that Binding of Isaac: Afterbirth is my favourite game, since I invested a few hours into it... With this being said I won't review it because my opinion will obviously influence my review, I will critique it using the concepts written by Ernest Adams and Joris Dormans in the book Game Mechanics: Advanced Game Design.  The authors came up with five concepts that players should find in every game. These are: Physics, Internal Economy, Progression Mechanisms, Tactical Maneuvering and Social Interaction.  Physics: Physics are very important in video games, because natural laws like gravity, mass, inertia can be applied in a game to either make it realistic or to distort reality. Not only the Newtonian physics are affected by game physics, it can also affect sparks, explosions or even smoke. The controls in The Binding of Isaac: Afterbirth are quite simple. The characters use physics for movement using the WASD keys and firing tears using the arrow keys.  There are a few items in the game that distort the veracity of the physics.  Such as Fate, Lord of the Pit, Spirit of the Night and a few synergies that gives the player the ability to fly. And tear effects that makes the character to shoot stationary tears (Anti-gravity), gravitational tears (Tiny Planet), bombs (IPECAC, Dr. Fetus and Epic Fetus), knife (Mom’s Knife) and even lasers (Technology, Technology 2, Tech X, Brimstone, Mega Blast and Shoop Da Whoop). Not counting with the synergies that can occur if the player mixes two or more of those items.  Internal Economy: Real life has an economy based on a system that produces currency or other objects that have a monetary value. However, there is other type of economy in games, it is called internal economy, which includes all kinds of resources, such as: Health, XP (experience), skills, levels, ammo and a lot more. In order to know better a video game’s gameplay, it is very important to understand how its economy works. How to get resources and how to spend them, in order to benefit the player. This game has a great quantity of examples for internal economy. It has coins, keys, bombs, and HP. The coins allow the player to buy items, consumables, gamble on slot machines. It even can contribute to the player’s damage if the item Money = Power has been picked up.  The Bombs are used to blow up tinted rocks (that gives spirit hearts, keys, bombs, golden chests or Small Rock). Bombs can be used also to find secret rooms, or simply as a damage dealer. Keys are required to get into certain rooms, such as Item Rooms, Shop, Double key rooms, libraries… It is also required to open golden chests. There are different types of HP, there are red hearts (usually gained from an item), spirit hearts and black hearts, the last two are temporary and are important in the beginning of every run. The temporary HP are used to protect red hearts so the player can access Deals with the Devil, these deals consume red hearts in exchange of some powerful items. If the player runs out of red hearts, temporary hearts can be exchanged as well.  Progression Mechanisms: Progression Mechanisms are one of the most important type of mechanism of any video game. And the reason for this is that it can engage players into spending lots of hours in a game just to try to beat the high score, to get through a level or to finish a game. There are lots of examples of progression mechanisms, such as: defeating an end level boss, puzzles, scores, getting certain items that allows players to proceed in the story, allowing access to more advanced levels and narratives. In Binding of Isaac the progression mechanism is to defeat bosses in order to go to the next floor. There are ways to go around that method, if the player has the item We need to go deeper! or an ehwaz rune, he can create a trap door in the ground and go to the next level. This is a viable way if the player is powerful enough or wants to get to Boss rush or the Hush fight on time, because jumping boss fights and possibly Deals with the Devil can have a great impact on the player’s stats, making the player weaker since the difficulty level goes up with every floor.  Tactical Maneuvering: Tactical Maneuvering is very important mostly in strategy games, because it gives benefits to players if certain units are located in the right place. However, each video game is unique and tactics differs from player to player, depending on how aggressively or how passively players tend to play the game. There are lots of things we need to consider before talking about Tactical Maneuvering. Since the game is randomly generated, the player can’t count on a certain item to show up at any time.  So it’s hard to have a defined tactic and it’s better to adjust the way the game is played with the items that are given. For instance: a player with the synergy brimstone + guppy will play differently of a player that has the synergy tiny planet + mom’s knife. Other thing that affects tactics is the amount of HP that the player has. This will affect the run especially in Deals with the Devil because there are lots of times that the player can’t make a Deal with the Devil given his low HP.   Social Interaction: Nowadays, the activity of playing video games is becoming more of a social activity. There are two ways of playing games with other people, either by the Internet or by LAN parties. One important step to improve social interaction in the gaming world was the creation of gaming platforms such as Steam or Desura, these incentivize players to socialize, talk, discuss game-related matters, and share their experiences and to play video games together. Binding of Isaac is a single-player game, however it can be played with another person in a local co-op scenario. One thing that came up with the DLC Afterbirth is the daily challenges, where lots of people can play the same seed, and in the end there’s a leaderboard where people can compare their scores. This is the only way that people can socialize in this game.  Conclusion: For a video game to be good it must follow some rules, which will allow players to become engaged while playing the game. For Adams and Dormans there are five different types of mechanics that a player could find in any game. The Binding of Isaac: Afterbirth can fit in all of those concepts excellently, with the only exception being the social interaction (which still is pretty good for a single-player game!).  After 830 hours, this game still surprises me for its complexity and for its coherency. Edmund and his team made an amazing work with this gem here, and I encourage everyone to try this game.","hours":1203,"funny_percent":0.037037037037037035,"helpful_percent":0.8962962962962963}
{"review":"I havent showered in 4 days","hours":298,"funny_percent":1.8345323741007193,"helpful_percent":0.8093525179856115}
{"review":"Kill Satan Kill your mom's internal organs Kill flying tumours Kill yourself as a fetus in your mom's uterus Kill whistling poop  and then get killed by a fly.  12/10 would buy again. ","hours":150,"funny_percent":1.8342857142857143,"helpful_percent":0.7857142857142857}
{"review":"The only game where i love getting cancer.  (edit 26/11/2016): XD","hours":145.9,"funny_percent":0.12994350282485875,"helpful_percent":0.8418079096045198}
{"review":"Very fun and expansive, but everybody hating on this because of Afterbirth+ PLEASE LISTEN:   STOP GIVING THE MAIN GAME BAD REVIEWS BECAUSE OF AFTERBIRTH+ GO TO ACTUAL PAGE OF AFTERBIRTH+ AND REVIEW IT THERE REBIRTH ISN'T AS BROKEN AS AFTERBIRTH+ YOU'RE HATING ON THE WRONG PAGE AND GIVING REBIRTH BAD REVIEWS BECAUSE OF SOMETHING THAT ISN'T REBIRTH GIVE AN ACTUAL REASON TO HATE IT, NOT \"Dlc is bad and so I hate the original!!!!!!!!!!!!!!\"","hours":123.7,"funny_percent":0.05384615384615385,"helpful_percent":0.9}
{"review":"After spending hundreds of hours in the original binding of isaac i was pretty sceptical about rebirth. To be honest i didn't expect it to have the same impact. But i was proven wrong sooooo wrong. After the first few minutes i got hooked again and can't stop playing since. More items, sick synergies, fun and creative challenges, coop, great graphics GREAT new soundtrack and smooth gameplay (no more slowdowns caused by the crappy flash engine). The only downside at this moment are some minor bugs.   However if you're looking for a reason for not get Rebirth, here's one: After playing rebirth for the first time the original binding of isaac will become a waste of space in your library since you never ever gonna thouch it again.","hours":238.7,"funny_percent":0.023255813953488372,"helpful_percent":0.8837209302325582}

{"review":"Well, my review is mainly for beginners who have just started this game or willing to buy it. This is also for them who had stopped playing it after some trivial hours of trying.  A great game but yet I think the enjoyment will depend on how you are playing it! All that I mean, if you want to get the fullest essence of this game then play with suitable co-op partner(s). Some who enjoys solo, they may say different but as I played solo because I had none to play with, so I felt even boring in some point and so also I felt how much the experience would be better with suitable co-op partner(s).  This is a hard-core game for hard-core gamers. Death and incapability may happen every now and then… but again the number may be reduced dramatically if you have your co-op partner(s). There are some other advantages too to play co-op (such as, better loot, or think that while you are reloading your gun, your co op partner still firing and thus you will be less hurt by enemies) and the game itself prompts for co-op although everything can be done in solo except few achievements.  This is a long game, including DLCs and need patience to finish them all. However, as I said before, this is a hard core game with almost a lot enemy everywhere, so, at some point you can feel frustrated if you don’t have proper levelled equipment and so you should farm for right things enough. Here again comes the advantage of co-op; such as you 4 people if farm for 4 weapons and then you can make duplicate of those [though it is a glitch] and you 4 can be well equipped… which chance does not exist in solo and so can be a lot time consuming and monotonous to be advanced.  For new players, as I was when I started this game… may be a problem to understand the architecture of the game. At the very beginning the game starts in NORMAL mode. Once you will finish the main game… then TVHM [True Vault Hunter Mode] will be unlocked which you can take as medium difficulty. Re-playing the game in TVHM mode from the beginning once you reach at level 50 and then so also if you have finished the last mission of main story, then UVHM [Ultimate Vault Hunter Mode] will be unlocked for you. So take this as hard mode. There are over power [OP (1 to 8)] mode also where you can think it as very hard difficulty mode where enemy is up of your level. but that can be unlocked once you reach the ultimate level of the game, i.e. level 72. So, the main game will take you upto the level 50; The UVH pack 1 will take you upto 61 and UVH pack 2 will take you to level 72.  Addition as on 30th June: Since I have just finished the main mission of main game in UVHM mode so I shall suggest you if you are playing UVHM then you must carry 2 blue pistols: Potent Rubi and Potent Gorg Nozzle and always keep one of these at your one slot. Whenever you are low in health start shooting using it.  This is the review basing on my present experience of nearly 400 hours; I can update this review in the future as I shall get new experience.","hours":430,"funny_percent":0.018618121638394703,"helpful_percent":0.9801406702523789}
{"review":"Trick your friend into dropping their gun so you can take it simulator","hours":62.1,"funny_percent":0.7388451443569554,"helpful_percent":0.9002624671916011}
{"review":"This game is infinite. You can play it whatever you like and it's always fun. I've said enough.","hours":408.9,"funny_percent":0.07560975609756097,"helpful_percent":0.9243902439024391}
{"review":"Borderlands 2 is a game for those that enjoy the feeling of finding awesome equipment hidden in a massive pile of other stuff.  Sure, you don't NEED to go in-depth with this game. On the first playthrough you can get by with just picking up gear as you travel along, choosing stuff that looks better than your current gear, and maybe occasionally buying something in the vendor that looks handy. The deeper you go down the rabbit hole however, the more there is to discover.  The story is decent for a First Person Shooter (albeit one with RPG elements), and dialogue is often amusing to a degree. Handsome Jack, the main antagonist is a cartoon villain with M rated attitudes. He believes, or at least pretends to believe that he is the good guy, and you are just a \"Filthy Bandit.\".  Graphically, the game has a lot more variations in design and color scheme than it's predecessor (which was brown, brown, and a bit of color here and there). Cell shaded graphics with thick, graphic novel like outlines is the style of the game, and does a good job of separating it from the average FPS.  Now, on to the gameplay itself!:  Action is often fast paced and exciting. So long as you don't allow yourself to get too far ahead of the enemy levels, you'll find battles where you have to fight hard to win. The game does a decent job of easing you into the various elements, such as different gun types (Pistol, SMG, Assault/Combat Rifle, Shotgun, Revolver, Rocket Launcher, and Sniper Rifle), the importance of a good shield, grenade mods (alter the way your grenade behaves, including damage bonuses and special effects), Class Mods (Class-specific devices which can boost skills, and have other effects like increasing fire rate with specific weapon types), and lastly Relics (Device which generally boost damage or defence in some way). Equipment rarity is also made fairly clear. It goes White, Green, Blue, Purple, Magenta, Orange, Seraph, and Pearlescent. The final two rarities (Pearlescent and Seraph) are special. Seraphs require you to have at least one of the season pass DLC to obtain (and you need all 4 of the Season Pass DLC to obtain all the Seraph rarity items), and as to Pearlescent rarity weapons, you need to be in Ultimate Vault Hunter Mode (Playthrough 3) for them to have a chance of being spawned. Don't assume that a blue is automatically better than a green rarity item, even at the same level. Experiment!  Playable Characters and Skills:  There are 4 included playable characters, and two DLC characters. Each class has it's ups and downs, and a special game changing skill unique to them. For example, Salvador (Gunzerker) will dual-wield guns when his action skill is active, meaning TWICE THE FIREPOWER. Axton (Commando) drops a turret, which damages enemies and draws aggression away from you. Maya (Siren) locks an enemy's movements for a short time, allowing you to get in free hits. Zer0 turns invisible for a few seconds and launches a decoy, and his first attack made whilst in this mode does increased damage. The DLC characters are Gaige (Mechromancer) who launches a flying robot that attacks nearby enemies, and Kreig (Psycho); a schizophrenic musclebound maniac that will whale on everything within reach with increased offensive and defensive capabilities and can even throw his axe at more distant targets.  Aside from the action skills unique to the character, there are various other skills that you can put points into, and have an effect on gameplay in some way. For example, increasing fire rate or damage for a few seconds after a kill is made. Each character has 3 skill trees, each ending with a final gamechanging skill modifier. For example, Zer0's Bloodlust (Melee) tree ends with the Many Must Fall perk, which will instantly re-deploy the hologram if he kills the enemy with one melee strike. As mentioned before, Class Mods unique to a character class will boost certain skills. It's possible for them to go as high as +6, meaning some skills can be boosted to 11, as the normal limit on points you can put into most skills is 5, though some skills are only 1 (those usually affect the way you play).  Plus, there is a gun that shoots swords....EXPLODING swords...In DLC4 (Tiny Tina's Assault on the Dragon Keep). So yeah, there is that too.  I hope you found my review useful, even if it might be a bit messy XD","hours":765.5,"funny_percent":0.0015698587127158557,"helpful_percent":0.9413919413919414}
{"review":"Borderlands 2 - Excellent Story, Solid Gameplay, Great Characters and one of the very best Coop experiences around.  || 9.5 || Score\tComment Graphics\t8\tBorderlands 2 has a visual style all its own, it may not initially impress some used to a \"next generation, high definition, ultra realistic landscape\", but it is nevertheless very appealing and detailed. Some of the landscapes and views around Pandora (the world on which the story takes place) are beautiful and each area has its own look and atmosphere. Characters and enemies are detailed and extremely varied in appearance. You can customise your characters appearance with a large selection of outfits and heads which you can collect throughout the game. Audio\t10\tNo real killer soundtrack here (apart from the the introduction video), just really good atmospheric music throughout. Where this game really shines is the voice acting for characters, enemies, audio logs and even weapons (yes some of them can talk!). The dialogue is often very funny, helping to explain and drive the story, fill in background and really adds the the immersion. Gameplay\t9\tA mix of FPS and RPG, Borderlands 2 is a lot of fun to play. So many missions to complete, so many enemies to kill, so much loot to grab. You are given massive area's to explore all over the world of pandora filled with creatures, quests, secrets and homages to lots of popular culture. Controls are responsive, intuitive and the game mechanics (even at higher difficulties) feel fair and well thought through. As you progress through the game you will earn xp and levels which allow you to customise your characters skills giving a large variety of gameplay styles. Story\t9\tThe story in Borderlands 2 is rich and engaging. The action is character driven, and while the main story is fairly linear, the open world nature of the game allows you to take a break from the main story arc and explorer the hundreds of characters and side missions that can be found all over Pandora. It also has one of the most badass, charasmatic and handsome villians of all time... Replayability\t9\tSo many reasons to replay this game. Firstly the story can be completed at least 3 times with the same character at increasing difficulty and xp levels (normal, true vault hunter and ultimate vault hunter) with progressively better rewards. There is so much detail in the story and so many optional missions that each play through feels different. Next you have at least 4 (more with DLC) characters each with their own skills, playstyle and story to explore. Finally you have tons of loot in the form of Guns, Shields, Grenades, Relics and Class Mods you can collect for your character. These increase in rarity from white (basic) to orange (legendary) generally the rarer the weapon the more damage it will do and many will have additional unique abilities (red text). Multiplayer\t10\tFor me, this game remains simply the best cooperative multiplayer experiences you can have. Your character's skills really augment and compliment each other when playing as a team. Enemy and mission difficulty automatically adjusts to the amount of players, requiring real teamwork and synergy to avoid dying at higher levels. The multiplayer allows you to connect (drop in and out midgame) to your steam friends games or to public games, connections for the most part feel quick and responsive even with 4 players and with only a small delay on audio communication. Overall 9.5\tI can't recommend this game enough, while a minority of missions feel like you are just a glorified delivery boy, most are creative, funny and packed full of classic moments and great characters. So much fun to pick up and play with friends. - I haven't really mentioned the DLC (of which there is a lot) in this review but the main ones (Mr Torgue's, Captain Scarlett and especially Tiny Tina's) are all well worth getting (these are included in the Game of the Year edition), great fun to play and add loads more content to the game. To progress to the highest level in the game (level 72 +overpower levels) you will also need the ultimate vault hunter pack 2 so I would recommend that if you reach the end and still want more.  More reviews by Fancy Fish Agree / Disagree? Please leave me a comment","hours":428.3,"funny_percent":0.07701564380264742,"helpful_percent":0.9446450060168472}
{"review":"Edit: Please stop joining my game, my anxiety can't handle it  I've been avoiding reviewing this game, being my number one favourite I couldn't think of a way to make it unbiased. But after the resurgence of Open world games, the downfall of AAA and the battle between TF2 and Overwatch, I think I can finally pinpoint what makes it so beautiful.  The art style is an obvious starting point. Everything is cartoony and exaggerated, it's filled with colour and despite being cartoony it feels more realistic than the grim grisley greyness of Skyrim, Morrowind, Witcher etc. It's not perfect of course, with clipping and terrible lip sync but with the cartoony atmosphere it adds to the exaggerated charm that it provides.  The characters themselves are also important. If you compare how they were designed to Mass Effect: Andromeda, the way it has been presented is genius. There are a lot of gay characters, black characters, female characters- but these characteristics do not define who they are. The characters still have peronalities, they just happen to be these things- they are not just addons, it just adds to the depth of the world.  I suppose the most important thing in a game is the gameplay, and this Borderlands nails too. A lot of games can't tell whether they want to be simple or complicated, they can't tell what gimmicks they want to use, so they use everything and it turns into an incoherent mess like Undertale. Borderlands knows exactly what it wants to do. It's a Single Player or Co-Op FPS with RPG mechanics with levelling and loot systems. The RPG mechanics make it feel more open worldy than most open world games. It defines what towns exist, and gives you fast ways to get to them, and while games like Skyrim use the open world idea to make you travel for hours, Borderlands 2 just adds a lot of depth with; secret loot boxes, experience, Cult of the Vault logos or mini easter eggs.  Something that I noticed in my most recent playthrough is how much freedom you have throughout and how this can appeal to both new players and veterans. One example is the first area, the entirety of Southern Shelf. You fight Knuckle dragger, to a new player they find out how brilliantly designed the bosses will be: They aren't walls of health, they aren't stupidly damaging, they are balanced with weaknesses and phases. An expert player on the other hand could then debate whether they would want to farm Knuckle Dragger for the legendary pistol Hornet, or just move on. This can also be seen in Southern Shelf Bay when you have to kill Midgemong. A new player could rush right towards Midgemong or maybe explore the boats, while an expert player would take the long route around for some extra loot and instead of calling the bridge over to get across the lake, they can just run across the chain, significantly increasing the pacing and replayability of the game.  Of course Borderlands 2 isn't perfect, the majority of the fun is in the UVHM playthrough which is a DLC. The bugs might throw people off while I enjoy discovering two or three new ones every new playthrough. Even despite this, just the first playthrough with a friend is highly worth your time. Let's hope Borderlands 3 will be another great one. Iron out the issues of Borderlands 2, while still being able to provide replayability where Borderlands: The Pre-sequel couldn't.","hours":1016.7,"funny_percent":0.04926108374384237,"helpful_percent":0.9507389162561576}
{"review":"There is something to be said for a game that I just don't get sick of. I have owned this on console and played through TVHM at least 4 times with 4 different characters there. Played all the DLC except Tiny Tina on console, but when the GOTY edition became so cheap on PC I jumped at it and bought all the Headhunter DLCs, and the Ultimate Vault Hunter Pack as well. So I can now play through the game THREE times on a character. Dar  I'm so addicted to this game still, but the funny thing is that I don't even finish it, or even come close to it now. I'm in a mass addiction to boosting my Badass Ranks so I just keep trying to \"prestige\" it instead of moving on and going towards UVHM. xD  I feel like I can pick this game up and play it at any time. Do a few things, and then quit playing. Unfortunately, for me anyways, I don't do that. I keep playing for hours, and I let all the other hundreds of games in my library continue to pile up.   I play this game EXCLUSIVELY in SINGLE PLAYER. People will tell you that it is much more fun playing with friends, and truly it can be, but don't disregard this game as a single player game. It is insanely addictive, and it actually poses some slight challenges to you to play it solo. Beating Raid Bosses solo is actually a genuine accomplishment, if you can actually do it. They are meant to be beaten witha 4 player team, but you CAN beat many of them solo. The new Ultimate Vault Hunter Mode (UVHM) makes it an even more insane challenge to play solo just for the regular game enemies. Needing to pump them full of slag just so you can actually get ready to start damaging them with any real power. Of course all this is basically a math problem of damage output vs. damage defense.   Borderlands 2, simply put, is one of the best games ever made in my opinion. The sheer addictiveness and fun in playing it are jsut off the charts. I recommend this to anyone, even if you think you won't like it. I thought Borderlands 1 looked stupid for years until I bought it for $5 with everything and realized how amzing the concept is and how it was made for OCD gamers. Now they are both 2 of my most played games ever, and I don't see myself stopping BL2 anytime soon. After all I ahven't even used The Psycho yet!  Buy the GOTY Edition. It is the best deal by far and has most of the relevant content you will want. Forget about the Season Pass and regular game. GOTY has all that stuff and more. Then buy the Ultimate Vault Hunter Pack to get extra level sand a 3rd round. The headhunter DLCs are worth it too for the cheap prices. Only thing not to buy are the stupid skin packs. Unless you like that sort of thing. Wait for it to go 75% off and you can get GOTY, UVH Pack, and allt he Headhunter DLCs for less than $20. BTW...these DLCs are legit and worth buying. This isn't some garbage map pack DLC, or jsut skins. These are high quality and large DLCs on the scale of the FAllout DLCs, and add even more than that in some of tehm. GOTY edition has almost too much content. >_>","hours":396.1,"funny_percent":0.0017543859649122807,"helpful_percent":0.9315789473684211}
{"review":"Definitely one of the best \"new\" games I have played. This game is fun to play solo or over the net with friends. The characters are witty, yeah even Claptrap :) Graphics are beautiful... Even after playing this game over 3000 hours; the game gives wow-moments to me. And every time there's something new.... and the vast choice of weapons, shields and other gadgets. So I full-heartedly recommend Borderlands 2. And yes, I will play co-op with you :)","hours":5117.9,"funny_percent":0.25301204819277107,"helpful_percent":0.9668674698795181}
{"review":"Nice gunplay? Check. Hilarious characters? Check. Massive replayablility? Check. Open world with many secrets to explore? Check. Loots? Check.  Guns?  Alot of them.  EDIT: I realized that my biggest mistake of my life was NOT to buy GOTY edition. PLEASE DONT MAKE MY MISTAKE AND JUST BUY THE ♥♥♥♥ING GOTY EDITION","hours":286.2,"funny_percent":0.5430711610486891,"helpful_percent":0.9119850187265918}
{"review":"I had played 1200 hours before I even tried any of the DLC. Now, if that doesn't speak to the incredible level of fun and depth that this game brings, well, I just don't know that anything can.   Sometimes I wonder how much better my life would be if I had spent those 1400 hours doing something constructive like studying my trade, helping the poor, or working on my home. But not often.   Second best game ever made. Absolutely terrific. Life ruiner. Go for it.","hours":1665,"funny_percent":0.8940809968847352,"helpful_percent":0.9345794392523364}
{"review":"Borderlands 2 has a lot of what made the original great. Its a shooter with role playing elements. Players loot enemies to collect gear that best compliments their play style.  If you aren't familiar with BL, the best way to explain this is to take the addicting looting system of Diablo and combine it with the basic elements of an FPS, throwing in some RPG via an inventory and skill tree. That's essentially the mechanics of the game, and it all slams together so well here. You have four basic classes to choose to play from, and each class has three paths to focus on in a skill tree -- this means there's plenty of variation to play. In addition to these basic mechanics, the game is open-world, though it may feel semi-linear as you can only explore on an area-by-area basis (think the opposite of an Elder Scrolls game, where you can walk around the entire map without hitting a loading screen until accessing a dungeon).   I have to say, with combining so many of our favorite gaming formulas, this game has so many highlights. Sometimes I felt like I was playing something akin to Skyrim. Other times, the ambiance of a specific area or the design of a specific feature reminded me of BioShock. And sometimes certain things brought me back to my Fallout 3 days. However, I never forgot I was playing a completely new adventure that easily whisked me away for hours in the unique and captivating world of Pandora. Lastly, I can't forget the guns. No joke, there are millions of guns you can find. It is so satisfying to find a ridiculous weapon and destroy enemies for the next three hours with it, only to find another weapon that is even better.  One thing many BL veterans mentioned is the lack of a good narrative beyond funny one-liners in the original game. I never played Borderlands 1, but I can tell you that in BL 2 the characters are memorable, the writing is well-thought out and downright hilarious, and the story moves at a great pace with scenes of great emotion and other scenes of great sarcasm. This is all coming from someone who is used to epic stories from Final Fantasy or Mass Effect. Also, be sure to keep your ears peeled while you fight the various enemies. They say and do some hilarious things themselves. But seriously, the writing is just super clever.  In conclusion, this is one heck of a game. I feel that it combines the best of so many game genres into a single FPS while adding in a memorable story that motivates you to find out what happens next. Of course, you'll be laughing your face off the entire way.","hours":95.9,"funny_percent":0.001692047377326565,"helpful_percent":0.8730964467005076}
{"review":"A psycho came running to me screaming:  \"I like my victims like i like my coffee...  IN THE BUTT\"  Literally the most wtf quote i've heard in a video game.","hours":12.3,"funny_percent":2.5987460815047023,"helpful_percent":0.9122257053291536}
{"review":"*Playing Co-Op with a friend*  *You see a weapon with good stats*  *Friend takes it*  *1 hour long argument starts*  10/10 would find others to play co-op with","hours":97.8,"funny_percent":1.944356120826709,"helpful_percent":0.8426073131955485}
{"review":"Borderlands 2 is an action role playing first person shooter, developed by Gearbox Software and published by 2k Games in September 2012. It is the second game in the Borderlands series and the sequel to the popular 2009 hit Borderlands 1.   As with the first game, you are able to complete a campaign with the main story quest and optional side missions as one of the four Vault hunters. All of the key gameplay features are all present, such as online co-op, randomly generated loot and character building elements such as talent trees are all found in Borderlands 2. There has been a game of the year edition released last year which includes all the DLC apart from one.   The gameplay at it's core is the same as Borderlands 1. The focus on randomly generated loot plays a huge part. Each of the characters you have the option to play as have their own specialty, and will bring a feel of originality to each playthrough on either of them. We also see a new elemental effect in BL2, Slag, this is a substance that increases the damage a target takes if they are covered in it. You will also find Eridium bars as you play the game, these can be used to purchase storage upgrades and increase the amount of ammo you can carry.   We also see an element of customizing how your character looks as well, you can unlock different skins, head designs, colour schemes and vehicle paint jobs. Another major addition to BL2 is the \"Badd@ss rank\" system; points are awarded for completing certain in-game challenges, that in turn award tokens that will allow you to increase your base stats. These stat increases also take effect on all of your other single player characters too. Also similar to the the original, we also see the return of a New Game Plus mode, in the form of \"True Vault Hunter Mode\", which increases the difficulty, and gives you a higher chance at even better loot drops. You are also able to level up to 50 in this mode too.   The graphics in Borderlands 2 are virtually the same as the original, but with just a more enhanced look to them. We see the vibrant colour schemes in each zone come to life. Along with better quality textures too. The style of graphics in Borderlands has always been a huge drawing point for me as there are hardly any other games which pull this style off as well as this.   Your first playthrough Borderlands 2 will have a number of difficult encounters, but these can easily be overpowered by returning to the same bad guy, mission or zone after leveling up one or two more times, or getting a bigger better gun. If you stay on top of all of the side missions as you progress through the story mission, you will stay at the right level so that you won't just hit a brick wall of impossible monsters/enemies. To make matters easier when it comes to deciding how tough a mission will be, each one also has a recommended level - so you can easily see how hard a single mission will be without actually having to test the waters first.   A full playthrough on single player of Borderlands 2 took me just under thirty hours. That is a pretty decent amount of content on offer, with the side missions and a decent amount of loot farming involved too. I have put almost 140 hours into Borderlands 2, as I have played various different characters through the story a number of times. This is a game where you can easily spend 300 hours and still be having the same amount of fun.   I had zero amount of technical issues throughout BL2; the game is perfectly optimized, will run at 60 fps, and the cloud save feature makes it even better technically.   Borderlands 2 is easily in my top 5 favorite games of all time. Just like the original, Borderlands 2 is a perfect game with no flaws in it at all. I cannot recommend this game enough. Most people will already have it since it goes on sale so much, but PLEASE play it. You will NOT be disappointed.   Tom's Score Card 1) Stay away 2) Only recommended when on sale 3) Recommended 4) Highly recommended 5) This is a must play  If you found this review helpful, please consider giving it a thumbs up. You can also find more reviews over at http://www.completingthebackloggroup.com/  ","hours":138.8,"funny_percent":0.04924242424242424,"helpful_percent":0.8712121212121212}
{"review":"It has a shotgun that shoots swords Nuff said","hours":785.1,"funny_percent":1.021604938271605,"helpful_percent":0.8209876543209876}
{"review":"Scroll back up and buy it.","hours":121.6,"funny_percent":0.6410256410256411,"helpful_percent":0.8791208791208791}
{"review":"It's been a few years, so there's not much I can say that was missed/overlooked by other reviews, but I still get someone every once in a while asking \"how is the game now,\" now that the community has dwindled in activity. This is the best way I can describe it:  Playing Borderlands 2 is just like going to a Standup Comedy Club.  You can go alone, have a couple drinks, you'll enjoy yourself. Some of the jokes will be pretty old, but you'll still enjoy the way they are told by the new comedians. At the end of the show you'll go home and think \"that was great, I'm glad I did that.\"  On the other hand. If you go with some of your goofy friends you'll probably all be drunk as hell before the headliner even takes the stage. Absolutely everything will be funny as ♥♥♥♥ because that's just how it is when you're drunk with friends. At times you'll be having so much fun being stupid with each other that you might forget there's a guy on-stage trying to keep your attention. After the show you'll drag yourselves home, wondering where the hell that donkey came from, and swear you'll never do it again... until next weekend when you do it again.  Special Note: Please see the first 2 comments below explaining high hours.","hours":17420.3,"funny_percent":0.8333333333333334,"helpful_percent":0.9349593495934959}
{"review":"I sunked in 500 hours of my life in this game and I do not regret every second of it.  I only have two characters (I had another two but I didn't feel like playing them) and I spent all of my hours fleshing them out. It was an amazing experience, collecting loot, experiencing the story all over again to make my characters stronger.  It's like an emotional bond, you know? I'm done with this game, but I occasionally go back to brush up my skills or to play with my friends.  There's still so much left for me to discover in this game.. and I'm glad that's the case. I won't ever forget this game at all, even when I'm old enough to handle a lot of responsibilities.  Thank you, Borderlands 2. You made my PC lively with your presence, and you made me happy with your presence. You still do.","hours":627,"funny_percent":0.04975124378109453,"helpful_percent":0.9601990049751243}
{"review":"One of the greatest games of our generation. Truly magical experience. 10/10. Nice people in game always willing to help out. Hilarious and inspiring. Good story with fantastic game play featuring a unique art style and revolutionary character development and customization. Great game to play with friends or make new friends.","hours":1275,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8505050505050505}
{"review":"\"See, this is what I don't get about you bad guys. You know the hero's gonna win, but you never just die quickly-- man, this one guy in New Haven, right? City's burning, people dying, blah blah blah. This guy rushes me with a spoon. A fricking spoon. And I'm just laughing. So I scoop out his eyeballs with it, and his kids are all, 'waahh!,' and, ah...you had to be there. Anyway, the moral is: you're a ♥♥♥♥♥.\"  Handsome Jack is seriously the best villain and is just one of the reasons to buy this glorious masterpiece of a game.  69/10","hours":147.9,"funny_percent":1.1056179775280899,"helpful_percent":0.851685393258427}
{"review":"once killed a bandit and he yelled pluto isn't a planet.  12/10 would learn space facts again.","hours":285,"funny_percent":0.844311377245509,"helpful_percent":0.9401197604790419}
{"review":"High quality, low prices, and no questions asked!  ~Marcus Munitions","hours":89.7,"funny_percent":0.43646408839779005,"helpful_percent":0.9226519337016574}
{"review":"Game of the Year. Every year.","hours":274.1,"funny_percent":0.006122448979591836,"helpful_percent":0.8224489795918367}
{"review":"Shoot, loot, consider suicide every time Claptrap opens his mouth Repeat","hours":101.8,"funny_percent":0.875,"helpful_percent":0.907608695652174}
{"review":"A game about 4 trash collectors looking for the best trash ever  10/10","hours":41.5,"funny_percent":0.006430868167202572,"helpful_percent":0.7721635277905374}
{"review":"It's ok, only played it for a few","hours":6423,"funny_percent":2.8260089686098655,"helpful_percent":0.7820627802690583}
{"review":"If you like guns, get this game. If you like RPGs, get this game. If you like playing solo, get this game. If you like playing with friends, get this game. If you like raid bosses, get this game.  What I'm saying is you should make a well-informed decision on whether or not to purchase this game.","hours":434.8,"funny_percent":0.3057324840764331,"helpful_percent":0.9490445859872612}
{"review":"AT A GLANCE (Full review follows below)  Game Name: Borderlands 2 Original Release: 2012 Genre Tags: FPS; RPG; Cooperative; Lighthearted; Action  My Overall Grade: A+ Estimated Playtime (Campaign): 30-100 hours Multiplayer Aspect: Optional Recommended To: Established fans of the genre; Those intrigued by the genre; Game atmosphere connoisseurs; Multiplayer gamers  REVIEW Borderlands 2 is the sequel to the original installment of the franchise. Like the first one, it is a chef-d'oeuvre of gaming. It boasts a masterful blend of FPS and RPG elements with an elaborate loot system to make for truly delectable gameplay. Complementing the gameplay is the unique and self-identifying art style and graphics, the blithe and cartoonish atmosphere, and the lighthearted narrative and zany NPC characters. All of these factors working in concert generate one hell of a gaming experience that should be able to bring pleasure to nearly any gamer out there.  Borderlands 2 plays very much like the first game, except there is just a little bit more of everything. Also, there are numerous small tweaks that go a long way to improve the tiny nuisances of the first installment. It is a direct sequel, but the lighthearted nature of the narrative allows for players to safely not worry about having played the first in order to understand the plot.  At the core of Borderlands 2, we find the same exemplary elements found in the first installment of the franchise. The gameplay is designed to offer both the face-paced action of an FPS with the character progression elements and gameworld massiveness of an RPG. There is an XP system that awards level-ups and ability-boosts. There are scores of quests to complete; some ancillary and others pivotal to the core narrative. There is a crazy world to explore, filled with various interesting NPCs. Enemy spawns and combat occur in real-time, right in the midst of everything else that is going on in the gameworld. There is never a dull moment or a lack of something to be working towards.  Borderlands 2 also has an elaborate and semi-random loot drop system. In the style made popular by games like Diablo, loot spills out of chests, crates, and enemies to pile up on the floor for you to peruse. Much of it will be junk, but you must always keep an eye out for the rare high quality drops. This is the same style used in the first Borderlands, except it has been amplified to offer a much wider variety of goodies. Due to the nature of the stat-progression of the weapons and the sheer variety, you will find yourself experimenting with many more and various weapons than you would in a standard FPS.  With Borderlands 2 comes the return of the self-identifying art style that was made iconic in the first game; except the graphics are more crisp and detailed in this installment. The graphics fit the theme of the game with perfection, as they expertly relay the feeling of zany, cartoonish raucousness that the game is striving to evoke. This atmosphere sets the tone for the burlesquing narrative which never wastes an opportunity to poke fun at the other, more serious games it relates to.   Also returning in Borderlands 2 is the option for a cooperative multiplayer approach to playing the campaign. The multiplayer also borrows from the style made popular by games like Diablo. You are able to play with other people by either allowing them to join your session or by joining theirs. You bring your own characters and earn your own XP and loot, but the game will be progressed up to the point that the host has reached. Playing with friends, or even with random people, can make the experience exponentially more hilarious and fun.  Follow my curation page to see more of my recommendations!","hours":73,"funny_percent":0.057034220532319393,"helpful_percent":0.8745247148288974}
{"review":"Start by choosing a character.  Finish the story. True Vault Hunter Mode and then Ultimate Vault Hunter Mode. Max out your level. Help boost low level players. Repeat using different character. Repeat using different character. There goes your life.  ","hours":61.6,"funny_percent":0.9780564263322884,"helpful_percent":0.8557993730407524}
{"review":"After more than 300h playing this is my short review.  Pros  - Story rich, the devepment of the story game is brilliant even with the side quests, you will hate and love Handsome Jack. - Jack, he is one of the best main antagonist in gaming history. - Amazing NPC characters like Tina, Claptrap, Mr.Torgue, Roland, etc. - Great playable classes all different to each other and all of them intereting to play in different way. - Loot, it's hard to get some legendaries but it's always fun to open a chest and get something amazing. - Weapons, super fun to learn what this new gun with red text does (one of them shoots explosive swords!) - Eastern eggs, there's one quest that you have to bring a ring from Claptrap Place to one mountain in Eredium Blight and throw it to the lava then 3 birds comes with loot chests lol. - Best community ever, always willing to help and play with you.  Cons  - Claptrap needs a wife","hours":540.2,"funny_percent":1.4836601307189543,"helpful_percent":0.9281045751633987}
{"review":"Does the hours say something?","hours":3280.9,"funny_percent":0.4713656387665198,"helpful_percent":0.8722466960352423}
{"review":"This game includes a pony made of diamonds that is named Butt Stallion. 10/10.","hours":229.5,"funny_percent":1.6956521739130435,"helpful_percent":0.7987117552334944}
{"review":"1. gather some friends 2. get some drinks and everything 3. play the game 4. get some sleep 5. wake up 6. dont shower 7. and repeat","hours":211,"funny_percent":0.003257328990228013,"helpful_percent":0.7776872964169381}
{"review":"My Siren is called Brick and she is the prettiest.","hours":411.8,"funny_percent":0.013870541611624834,"helpful_percent":0.7721268163804491}
{"review":"this is the game that destiny players hate because it's better in almost every way","hours":247.7,"funny_percent":0.30978260869565216,"helpful_percent":0.8804347826086957}
{"review":"There were a lot of things that made Borderlands such a great game when it came out three years ago: the hardscrabble planet, the oddball characters, the hostile creatures, the diverse missions, the abundant loot, the powerful skill trees, and the novelty of all these things combined in a cooperative first-person shooter. In Borderlands 2, the novelty is gone, but all of the other elements are back and better than ever. This sequel doubles down on the successes of the original and shores up its shortcomings, improving the familiar formula and delivering dozens and dozens of hours of immensely entertaining gameplay.  THE GOOD: - A ton of great mission writing and dialogue - Enticing loot and experience rewards - Intriguing skill trees - Rich, inviting gameworld  THE BAD: - Spoken messages sometimes interrupt each other - One character ability is not substantially different from the core gunplay  8.7/10 for me!","hours":793,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8687782805429864}
{"review":"This is a kinda game that you pick up, play until your balls are busted, drop it for a while and then pick it up again later.  It's really fun, with a lot of guns (It is a lot of them. I thought I knew it but I've been told that in vanilla, BL2 had est. 1 mil guns). With a very well made combat and RPG system, this kinda game is something that everyone will gain a laugh out of, especially with friends. However that does not excuse it of the flaws it has.   As you start the game, a Russian-ish man by the name of Marcus Kincaid tells you the introduction of the story, saying what happened in the ending of B1 (The original Vault Hunters finding and opening the vault only to find \"tentacles and disappointment\" which is weird since I find tentacles alone disappointing.) However, Hyperion has decided to step into power, by putting a H-formed Space Station over the sun/moon/whatever that thing is, making many of the areas overshadowed, and it also gives the game a \"Big Brother\" feeling with Hyperion watching Pandora.  You are one out of 4 (6 with DLC. It's explained that Krieg got involved by riding on the side of the train in the end of \"A Meat Bicycle Made For Two\" but not how Gaige got in the train) Vault Hunters on a train, to find the new vault that Hyperion has discovered. Then they attempt to kill you, but Axton (as the Commando), Maya (as the Siren), Salvador (as the Gunzerker) and Zer0 (as a number Assassin) manages to together, survive and get into the last train cart, only to find a doll of Handsome Jack the antagonist, wired with loadsa bombs, welcoming them to Pandora before their supposed demise.  This is where the game begins, with one (or depending on the friends you start with) Vault Hunter waking up in a snowstorm only to have a Steward Bot by the name of CL4-TP (Nicknamed \"Claptrap\" by his deceased non-existent friends) dig their grave. He finds you waking up, and enlists you as his \"Minion\" right from the get-go, and instructs you to get to Sanctuary with him.  It may be a cheesy setup, but it's hella less cheesy than what B1 had.  The gameplay is pretty much \"Grab the best that you can deal with until you find better guns to make bullets go out of them and into the enemies' heads and/or bodies.\" Where you pretty much side quest until you've got guns good enough to face an army without having a Hulk with you (Unless you're playing Psycho where you are the Hulk.) Gearbox are pretty much \"Quantity over Quality\" when it comes to guns.   Happiness is a warm gun when it comes to this game.   The RPG system isn't like them Call of Duty games (This is a line you expected didn't you) where you can trade items, bid for them or duel for them with other players. One thing that I HATE though is that you only get 45 skill points instead of 50 when max level (Without DLC).  The classes available are different from one another, and none of them are your average \"rooty-tooty-point-'n'-shooty-man\" due to their different trees and action skills. The Commando is the guy who likes Tower Defense games and has a turret with him to shoot and distract different enemies. When upgraded, it can cast a shield for your allies, be thrown on ceilings and walls, carry more guns and even rockets, plus having two of them!   The Siren is a very much support class, her Phaselock lifts an enemy into the air and surrounds it in a ball of energy, which when upgraded can draw enemies towards it, deal elemental damage to everyone around, make your guns fire faster, and you can even make so that an enemy killed in Phaselock can heal you and your allies. She's also got a skill which lets you heal your allies by shooting them.   The Gunslinger is all about compensating for his (presumably small) dong. He can wield two guns instead of one, and when upgraded can make so that you can distract enemies towards you, being able to gunzerk while downed, have a chance of not spending ammo when firing a gun, and... Just in general shoot two guns.  The Assassin can turn invisible, and can regenerate health while cloaked, be able to perform backstabs, mark targets which makes them take more damage, throw Kunais with random elemental effects, or you can make bandits be like \"He's like the wind...\" by getting increased gun and melee damage when moving (per level). There's also a skill called \"B0re\" which makes so that your shots have a chance of penetrating enemies and deal more damage every time it goes through someone... Gross.   There are 5 elements in the game, Fire (great against those without a shield), Shock (Great against shields), Corrosive (Incredibly effective towards robots), Explosion (Which is pretty much self-explanotary) and Slag (By \"slagging\" an enemy, they take more damage when attacked by non-slag weapons.) Guns can either have one of these elements, or just have regular bullets which are all-rounders really.   There are Pistols, SMGs, Assault Rifles, Shotguns, Sniper Rifles, Rocket Launchers and grenades. There's also E-Tech weapons. How do they work? Well, to quote Dr. Zed, \"It turns bullets into... Stuff that ain't bullets!\" They're different from bullet/rocket launchers. Normally they have better stats than normal guns but are harder to use. To quote Dr. Zed again, \"E-Tech is friggin' dope.\"  However the game expects you to do all the side quests, and such can get ahead of you quite a lot of times for people who just wanna beat the story real quick. It also has lots of difficulty spikes throughout the campaign, especially in the New Game Plus (named True Vault Hunter Mode).  Despite all of this, it's a really good game, awesome with friends too. I'd say that you all should go and get it when it goes on a sale.","hours":256.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8781725888324873}
{"review":"My favourite thing about this game is it’s captivating story. With a lot of humour, this game pulls off an action shooter with RPG aspects and a storyline you should follow. There are lots of sidequests that will take hours to complete, but the benefits of completing this game are well worth the time. With millions of different guns, a lot of different character skins and a unique experience with all the various classes, this game has hours of fun built straight in.  The game will be fun no matter which class you play, but that’s not entirely due to the class. I found that most of the classes really lack something to keep you interested in, and throughout the whole game it feels like more attention was given to certain classes over others. Story-wise, the siren is pretty much the only class that gets any attention and backstory, as an individual with a history and as a class with abilities. All of the classes have a slight amount of backstory that becomes obvious throughout the game, but Siren has significantly more, and even then it’s very little.  Beyond that, the entertainment value of playing as certain classes over others was very noticeable to me. I played as all the classes, including the 2 DLC classes, and some of the abilities and skill trees and other class-specific aspects were lacking for a bunch of the classes. Some things that were common for all of the classes were that there are certain skill trees that seem obviously better than other ones and significantly simpler to think about, making them seem more attractive, and all of the classes lack enough in-game backstory to really get a feel for them. With all these classes, it comes down to a matter of opinion, what sort of playstyle you like and other such things, but I’ve found that there are some that are distinctly more enjoyable than others.  I think if there were more random Echo Recorders placed around the maps with a bunch of stories about the characters, with more information on them the game could be a lot more interesting. Throughout my playing of the game, I found a couple about Maya (the siren), one about Zer0 (the assassin/ghost) and nothing about any other character. That’s always been something that annoyed me. The stories of the characters may exist somewhere, but if they do, they are probably too hard to find.  In terms of story, I loved this game. There was a hint of humour in just about every interaction you had with the other characters, and the story overall was very captivating and kept me playing. I think the end-game was a bit lacking and didn’t completely match up with the story, but it was still interesting and I don’t regret playing this game through at all. The side quests in this game were very extensive, and easily one of my favourite aspects of the game. Some sidequests are very tedious and boring, but others are absolutely a blast, like those given to you by Tiny Tina (pun intended ;) ).  The replayability of this game isn’t infinite, it does get boring to play through the same parts over and over again in this game, but that doesn’t mean you can’t play it more than once at all. Replaying the game in True Vault Hunter Mode, a difficulty increase that allows you to replay the game using your already powerful character, can still be quite fun. The difficulty of the game overall becomes harder while maintaining the same story with no new additions aside from more powerful guns.  The playstyle in this game is very different from that of most other shooters. In Borderlands, you don’t really need to conserve any ammo and you can run around, jump and do a bunch of other crazy things while still attacking enemies. This makes the game more casual and relaxed, which I found to be pretty enjoyable. You very rarely run out of ammo, with all the excessive boxes with tons of different types of ammunition and the cheap price at which you can buy ammo in shops.   That brings me to my next point, which is the excess of money in this game. There is very rarely an opportunity where spending money makes much sense or is beneficial, with ammo being really cheap and not really affecting your money and most of the items in shops being pretty bad compared to the ones you can get outside from drops. I know a lot of people enjoy using the slot machines at Moxxi’s bar, but I never found it that entertaining when it for the most part doesn’t get me anything decent. Pretty much the only point of collecting money is to get the badass ranks.  The whole badass system is something I really like in Borderlands. Being able to slightly upgrade your character in about every way imaginable pretty awesome. Slowly, you’ll amass badass ranks by completing these missions, the more difficult missions resulting in more badass ranks, and for every 25 badass ranks you’ll get 1 badass token which can be used to upgrade one of the 5 stats presented. I really like the additional content that this adds to the game.  Personally, I far prefer playing this game with other people. I don’t like playing very many games alone, and even if I’m playing a singleplayer game, I like to be talking to other people at the same time. I find it a lot more enjoyable, and the same thing applies to this game. I’ve never played this game without other people simply because every moment allows for a lot more laughing and interaction when you’re doing it with other people. If I had played through this game alone, I might have noticed some interesting bits of humour, but I never would have started laughing hysterically at some glitchy motion or funny joke. The enjoyment is multiplied by a lot when playing this game with other people.  Something I noticed is that everyone plays this game differently. Personally, I like to play it patiently, doing all the sidequests, and being sure I’m making the right decisions with my skill points and gun choices. When I play Borderlands, I also like to play for as long of a period as possible. Of course I know nothing is that big of a deal, but I like being patient with this game and spending time on everything because I like feeling that I’m making the right decisions. Some of the people I have played with like to speed through the game and skip any extra content and make the easiest decisions possible. I think it’s important to play with people that have at least a similar mindset to you so that you aren’t being forced to play in a way that you aren’t entirely comfortable with.  Warning: Slight spoilers in following paragraph. Reader discretion is advised. The final boss of the game really irked me. There was a whole obsession with how it was summoned using a siren and the key, both of which are very eridium oriented. The final boss used a lot of fiery attacks and swam in the pools of lava that surrounded the boss fight. I think it would have made a lot more sense if they were pools of molten eridium or something, with the boss spewing out eridium, or at least something purple, rather than fire.   This game also has some really amazing individual lines. They are scared all throughout the game, but easily my favourite is the line that Scooter says when you meet him in Sanctuary. I’ve probably ruined the rewatching of that line several times when replaying the game with friends, through my inability to repeat the line properly and because I keep on trying.  Overall, this game can easily be worth $20 depending on how much you play it and how much you enjoy it. I’d recommend getting it on sale simply because I’ve seen it go on sale reasonably often, for at least 66% off, but the game is also getting older and the Pre-Sequel (another game in this series, taking place between the first and second games) did come out recently. Quite simply, I love the amount of humour in this game, it’s a fun game to sink plenty of time into, and probably one of my top 10 all time games because of how much of a blast I had with it.","hours":84.3,"funny_percent":0.024752475247524754,"helpful_percent":0.8712871287128713}
{"review":"Kill things to collect guns.  Collect guns to kill things","hours":156.8,"funny_percent":0.5048543689320388,"helpful_percent":0.970873786407767}
{"review":"Borderlands is an FPS+RPG game that includes tons of shooting and looting fun.  Probably one of my favorite games of all time, I've had so much fun both in singleplayer and with other friends. The game has lots and lots of dlcs for you to enjoy, not to mention all the different guns this game has. It has such a massive variation , almost every gun spawn with random parts from each manufacturer which makes it even more interesting. The art style is cartoon-ish which i think is absolutely great makes it really cool to play.   The game has alot of replay value since they give you already 4 characters with their own uniqe skills to play around with plus the two dlc characters. The game is fairly long and there is still alot of stuff to do if you actualy complete it. The world is completely open and there is alot of exploring to do in the game. I've spent up to many hours getting just one gun that i wanted, but when you finally get the gun you have been farming or hunting for you really feel that you have achieved something.  I made alot of friends in the past playing this game, either i joined random games or i found someone through the community, we had tons of fun together and we always kept on playing it every day. The coop has space for up to 4 players which i think is just fine considering the balancing of enemies (The more players you harder the game becomes, the better loot you will get.) That's really all i have to say about this wonderful game, I give it 10/10 probably the best game I've ever played, recommended to the highest.","hours":1715.4,"funny_percent":0.08176100628930817,"helpful_percent":0.8930817610062893}
{"review":"it's alright","hours":1085.8,"funny_percent":1.2702702702702702,"helpful_percent":0.7567567567567568}
{"review":"Borderlands 2 is the only game that makes you actually feel pretty excited when you come across a portable potty. Go figure.","hours":135.8,"funny_percent":0.003669724770642202,"helpful_percent":0.7724770642201835}
{"review":"Spent an hour killing bugs to make a 1billion+ Hp raid boss spawn. He got hit by a train. 10/10 good loot","hours":230,"funny_percent":1.058139534883721,"helpful_percent":0.8546511627906976}
{"review":"Buy game. Install game. Play game. Find gun. Shoot enemies. Get better gun. Shoot bigger enemies. Get even better gun. Kill a boss. Get a super gun. Beat the game. Party. Attempt to defeat a raid boss. Fail. Find random public game. Attempt to defeat a raid boss again. Fail. Leave public game. Host a game. Invite friends. Fail. Buy them the game. Invite friends. Train them. Give them better guns. Attempt to beat a raid boss yet again. Fail. Once more. Fail. Ignore raid boss. Increase difficulty. Troll friends. Beat game again. Party again. Get super duper gun. Attempt to beat a raid boss. Success. Loot underleveled. Sell them. Increase difficulty. Get destroyed. Get obliterated. Get demolished. Leave game. Come back after a week. Try again. Get dunked on. Find SHIFT codes. Use SHIFT codes. Use 50 golden keys. Get a slag weapon. Try again. Get revenge. Speedrun. Beat the game again. Don't party. Buy DLC. Buy friends DLC. Host a game. Invite friends. Fail. Get bored. Wait for friends. Fail. Wait a week. Invite friends. Fail. Wait more. Fail. Exit game. Fail. Power off computer. Fail. Open task manager. Fail. Virus scan. Fail. Unplug power. Fail. Leave house. Fail. Cry. Fail. Host a game. Invite friends. Success. Enjoy game. Fail. Friends leave. Explode. Success.","hours":322.1,"funny_percent":2.238993710691824,"helpful_percent":0.8805031446540881}
{"review":"So this is what Australia is like...","hours":12.1,"funny_percent":1.3214285714285714,"helpful_percent":0.9196428571428571}
{"review":"Borderlands 2 is the best FPSMMORPG ever made. Suck the rest of world.","hours":7194.4,"funny_percent":0.3130434782608696,"helpful_percent":0.782608695652174}
{"review":"Fatass daughter of sexy character. 13-year old demolitionist. A robot calling you his minion and throwing birthday party. Gang wars. Diablo-style weapon generation. Jokes, jokes everywhere. \"Not a bit of insanity\". Really good and funny DLCs worth the cost. (If you bought GOTY at least) And I'm not even halfway through the game.  11/10 three-barrelled sniper rifles with mounted blade carried by psycho midgets.","hours":90.5,"funny_percent":1.1071428571428572,"helpful_percent":0.8005952380952381}
{"review":"If you like guns, get this game. If you like RPGs, get this game. If you like playing solo, get this game. If you like playing with friends, get this game. If you like raid bosses, get this game.  What I'm saying is you should make a well-informed decision on whether or not to purchase this game.","hours":29.8,"funny_percent":0.18604651162790697,"helpful_percent":0.9069767441860465}
{"review":"Legends say that even the developers found the objective of the mission Shoot This Guy In The Face so cryptic and difficult, they needed to browse the coding.... TWICE. I mean, it IS a really hard mission which barely tells you what to do. The quest only says:   Shoot McShooty in the face ...but not in the arm ...but not in the leg ...but not in the chest  Face Mcshooty also screams something about shooting him in the face but even today, professional Borderlands players are STILL trying to figure out what he means by that. The ONLY way to beat this mission is to cheat by messing with the game's code. Otherwise this mission is way too cryptic and impossible to beat.   Also great game tho","hours":123.9,"funny_percent":3.108614232209738,"helpful_percent":0.8127340823970037}
{"review":"Fantastic Game! You can literally put 300+ Hours into this, because of the massive replay value. Very rewarding to level up, and incredibly satisfying to find good loot and test it out. Definately one of the best games of 2012 (yes i know im late) If you dont already have this game, get the GOTY edition NOW.","hours":146,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7839335180055401}
{"review":" Greatest game I have ever played. ","hours":171.4,"funny_percent":0.031818181818181815,"helpful_percent":0.8136363636363636}
{"review":"I threw a shotgun at a fat man and the gun exploded and killed three people. 10/10","hours":34.1,"funny_percent":0.7870036101083032,"helpful_percent":0.7906137184115524}



{"review":"IT'S BACK ON STEAM WOOO  Deadpool is a serviceable hack and slash game. If you're a big fan of the character like I am, it's a must buy. If you're not, there are much better options.","hours":6.7,"funny_percent":0.17270194986072424,"helpful_percent":0.915041782729805}
{"review":"If you're a Deadpool fan in the mood for mediocre gameplay carried by superb voice acting and some decent writing, then it's worth picking up on sale.","hours":11.9,"funny_percent":0.15777777777777777,"helpful_percent":0.8777777777777778}
{"review":"Deadpool is an action beat'em up game based on the Marvel Comic book character. The game was developed by High Moon Studios and published by Activision. The title was released on PC, PS3 and Xbox 360 in June 2013. Due to a licensing issue, the game was later taken off sale digitally in January 2014, before being re-released on Steam in July 2015. Deadpool will also be seeing a re-released version on the Ps4 and Xbox One in November of 2015.   The gameplay in Deadpool is a very basic hack and slash style. You have quick and heavy melee attacks, whilst also having a selection of guns to choose from as well. You are able to combine the quick attacks and heavy attacks together to make some interesting yet powerful combinations. Throughout the game you are also able to purchase upgrades and learn further combos allowing you to pull of some spectacular looking attacks in the latter stages of the game. As you pull of more and more complex combos, you are rewarded with more of the in game currency, allowing you again to purchase upgrades, new weapons and side arms, such as grenades and traps for instance. There is so much to actually upgrade in this game; and you may even find it hard to purchase the majority of the skills too; so it may be wise to plan out how you envisage you playing the game at the very start of your play through - whether it be melee based, or more focused on guns and ranged attacks.   There is a small element of platforming to be seen in Deadpool, but nothing that gets too annoying, yes the jumping puzzles are very prominent in some stages, but as you get further into the game, you will also learn a teleporting ability which makes small work of any platforming problems.   Graphically, Deadpool takes on the same sort of style as you would expect from the comic book series. Nothing majorly fancy, just your standard looking last generation title. The cut scenes look far worse than the actual gameplay which is something I am becoming increasingly aware of given the fact that they also run in a lower frame rate as well. All of the animations of everything in the game are stellar though, when pulling off the crazy combo attacks, it looks so fluid and I cannot fault the animation in Deadpool in anyway.   The plot in Deadpool is also very inline as what you would expect if you have any knowledge of the comic book series. Deadpool continuously breaks the fourth wall, referencing you, the player on a frequent basis, making comics on the game design and the developers. Having only read a couple of the Deadpool comic books, I still felt as if I had known this character for years, and even someone who has no knowledge of who Deadpool is, will surely appreciate the comical value on offer here. The lewd comments, the toilet humour and the staple one liners all make an appearance and had my chuckling along throughout my play through.   At no point throughout the game did I feel challenged though; I was playing on the normal difficulty and really felt a bit let down with the foes in front of me. Once you learn a few combos and upgraded a few bits of equipment, there is really no challenge at all in the fighting scenes as you plough through squads of enemy troops without any issues. I would strongly suggest that you play this game on the highest difficulty to get any sort of challenge out of the gameplay though.   All of the levels within Deadpool have a lot of items which you can pick up, such as ammo and collectable items and not to mention plentiful amounts of the in game currency to use on them precious upgrades. I found myself at times venturing off the main path just to collect more of this currency and this can sometimes lead to a few little Easter eggs to be found. That being said; there is only one way to complete a level, one entrance, and one exit; a completely linear experience - I didn't find this to be a bad thing; it just would have been nice to see a couple of other ways to complete a few of the stages.  I have played through Deadpool twice now, once when it first came out, and a second one recently. Each play through took me roughly 12 hours to complete; that's quite a long time for a linear single player game of this type, but with the lack of any multiplayer, there isn't any replay ability and no other reason to play through a second time unless you are going to ramp up the difficulty like I did on a second run through.   Whilst playing I had a couple of technical issues, none of them were game breaking problems, just little annoyances. The first one being that sometimes after interacting with an object, whether it be a lever or opening a chest, Deadpool would for some reason start moving in a direction on its own, and it takes a couple of key presses before it stops and you then have control over the character again. Secondly, there is a huge amount of invisible walls throughout most of the levels too; you can be trying to jump up a wall and suddenly you will hit a wall of nothing and will completely mess up your jumping puzzle just because the developer didn't want you to go down that path. Thirdly, the lack of any graphics options when in game is a real pain as well; you have to completely back out right to the main menu before you can make any changes - this is just annoying and shouldn't be something we see in common day PC releases. I will say though, I did play Deadpool on 4k resolution, with all the graphics setting on max and was able to get a steady 60 fps MOST of the time. I did notice a few drops sub 60, but these were few and far between and only on the highly graphically intensive scenes.   To sum up, I would simply recommend Deadpool, it's not a fantastic game, but it will certainly wet your appetite for more games of this style. The comical value alone for me made this a worthwhile experience. It is certainly not worth the full price tag of £29.99, no no no no. That is day light robbery right there, the lack of any real replay ability and 12 hour story mode is a real warning sign and you should only consider picking up Deadpool when it goes on sale for anything less than £15. I would also just put it out there; that I would pick it up sooner rather than later before another issue with licensing arises and Deadpool is removed from Steam again - this may only be relevant for game collectors though.  Tom's Score Card 1) Stay away 2) Not Recommended 3) Only recommended when on sale 4) Recommended 5) Highly recommended 6) This is a must play  If you found this review helpful, please consider giving it a thumbs up. You can also find more reviews over at http://www.completingthebackloggroup.com/  ","hours":22.5,"funny_percent":0.051011433597185574,"helpful_percent":0.8698328935795955}
{"review":"Pretty good combat and okay Way-era humor accompanied with some of the worst enviornment design I've seen from an action game. like DMC2 bad.  But, if you're a fan of Deadpool like I am, I'd reccommend it.","hours":2.7,"funny_percent":0.16299559471365638,"helpful_percent":0.8237885462555066}
{"review":"Although the combat becomes stale and repetitive, the writing and dialogue great If you are a fan of deadpool don't hesitate to pick this up on sale.","hours":7.1,"funny_percent":0.09322033898305085,"helpful_percent":0.827683615819209}
{"review":"I'm touching myself tonight.","hours":5.9,"funny_percent":1.5295109612141653,"helpful_percent":0.7757166947723441}
{"review":"This game isn't as bad as a lot of people seem to think it is. If you've enjoyed games like X-Men Origins: Wolverine, Spider-Man Web of Shadows, or other superhero action games of that ilk, than Deadpool is another one of those. The humor is great if you think typical Deadpool humor is funny, and there are a lot of insane set pieces to stumble your way through. It's obviously not for everyone, but I've enjoyed my time with it.","hours":7.7,"funny_percent":0.0030120481927710845,"helpful_percent":0.8734939759036144}
{"review":"Deadpool is an over-the-top action adventure game with lots of humor. Yes, it's not the most intelligent humor out there, but it certainly has a couple of hilarious moments. Too bad the gameplay is so generic.   First of all, let me start by saying that the game looks great and I really enjoyed the subtle animations of Deadpool. It looked natural so I was pleasantly surprised. Add to that the fantastic voice acting of Nolan North and you have a fun character to play with. The fact that Deadpool is aware that he's in a game makes the game that much more special.   But despite all that, the gameplay itself is disappointing to say the least. If you ever played an action adventure game before this, you know exactly what to expect. You'll be slashing and shooting enemies for 7-8 hours straight with one or two exceptions. I won't spoil these for you as they make the game a bit better, or more interesting.   Coins can be found all over the levels and slain enemies will drop coins as well. Collecting these allows you to upgrade Deadpool or any of his weapons. It's nothing major and most of us won't even notice the differences, except for the fact that enemies are killed faster.   The boss fights are uninteresting and the villains aren't even worth mentioning except for Mr. Sinister. On the other hand, the X-Men cameos are much cooler because you'll probably recognize more of those characters (like Rogue and Wolverine). Still, they're only in it for a few short moments so it's not that you'll be seeing them for tens of minutes. But it's still cool.  The controls could've been tweaked a little more. It generally works ok, but the teleport button is also used for evading attacks. Things can get kinda hectic and sometimes instead of evading you'll just teleport behind your enemies. Awkward.  There are also a few glitches. Opening treasure chests, for example, glitched A LOT for me. Deadpool would just stand over it and do nothing and no matter how many times I pressed the button the game just wouldn't register it properly. Again, nothing major, but it's still something that should've been fixed before release.  Ok, so let me sum things up again: if you're a comic book fan, or more specific, you love Deadpool, this is the game for you. If you love generic action adventures, this is for you. If you love humor and love to play a funny character, again, Deadpool is for you.  If you aren't interested in any of these things, well then, Deadpool's not for you. Just do yourself a favor and skip it.  [Rating: 75/100]","hours":7.8,"funny_percent":0.008849557522123894,"helpful_percent":0.8761061946902655}
{"review":"Deadpool Developer: High Moon Studios Publisher: Activision  Introduction ========== After a rather extended vacation, Deadpool is back on Steam. The Merc with a Mouth's own video game is just as you'd imagine: full of blood, weapons, and Deadpool's own unique fourth-wall breaking brand of humor. Oh yes, it's just as fun as you think. But not at full-price. While Deadpool's game is more fun than you can imagine, it's rather short, clocking in at just over 7 hours on my own playthrough - not enough for $39.99.  Gameplay ========== At its core Deadpool is a hack n' slash third person shooter with some platformer elements. You are able to control Deadpool as he wrecks all manner of baddies with his rather underwhelming, yet suitable-for-the-job arsenal of weapons. Deadpool has 3 melee weapons, 4 different types of firearms, and about 5 types of throwables. You can mix light and heavy attacks with your melee weapons to perform all manner of combos, while you can use your guns to take out distant enemies, or perform \"gunkata\" attacks mid-combo. You can make use of Deadpool's teleporter belt to dodge attacks and even travel short distances later in the game.  Each of Deadpools weapons can be upgraded, unlocking different special abilities and traits using Deadpool Points. These points are gained by defeating enemies, or found laying around in the world. The more enemies you thwomp, the higher your combo count goes. The higher your combo count, the more Deadpool Points you earn. Therefore it's in your best interests to defeat enemies as efficiently and as quickly as possible so you can upgrade your weapons and abilities sooner rather than later. Enemies also drop ammo, which, like Deadpool Points, can also be found laying around.  There is quite a bit of platforming in the game, and as such Deadpool is able to double jump and later teleport to ledges and platforms over short distances. He is also able to walljump off of buildings, walls, and other things in the environment. This can be used to traverse areas or as a way to get into a more advantageous position during combat.  Graphics ========== As far as games go, Deadpool doesn't look bad. It's technically last gen, but it looks nice enough. The best parts are the little details. For example, as Deadpool takes damage his suit gets messed up, revealing his cancer-ridden body. If left alone long enough, Deadpool regenerates health, and apparently his suit as well. It's actually pretty cool to sit and watch that happen.  There is slight variation in enemy designs, but not much. For the most part you will be facing hordes of clones, and there are about 8-10 types. You'll probably get sick of seeing them, but not of blowing them up. Every melee attack or gunshot results in blood going everywhere in very generous amounts.  Sound and Music ========== For an action game, the soundtrack's alright. It matches Deadpool's wit and jokes surprisingly well. But it's nothing to write home about. It does it's job, and nothing more. In fact a lot of it is reused quite a bit.  Sound effects are a different matter. The gunshots sound very satisfying, especially high rate-of-fire guns. Sword slashes, blood splashing around, bodies piling up...it all sounds so awesome.  Perhaps the best part of the game is the voice acting....the constant jokes and jabs at everything that Deadpool and his 2 inner voices make. Every single line of dialogue from Deadpool is hilarious. The game really stays true to the character.   Performance ========== The game runs pretty well, with very few instances of slowdown or lag. I did experience it a few times, but it was short lived. For the most part it ran perfectly and a smooth 60 FPS at nearly all times. I played with a Logitech F310 controller, and it worked very well by default, with no configuration needed. The controls were very smooth and intuitive.  Final Thoughts ========== Deadpool is a fun game for fans of the character, in fact it's a must-have for fans. For all others however, there are better offerings available that offer more playtime. Still, it's a fun game for a while, albeit a bit short. Still, it's friggin' Deadpool. What's not to like?  Gameplay Demo ==========  YouTube™ Video: Deadpool - Gameplay Demo  Views: 580 A short video showcasing the game Deadpool.   Nerd House Verdict: ========== Recommended ","hours":7.5,"funny_percent":0.07511737089201878,"helpful_percent":0.7652582159624414}
{"review":"this is one of those rare games that has an anarchic sense of humor and totally captures the character of Deadpool gameplay combines fast fluid combat with fast paced platforming and a whole heap of stuff i dont want to spoil in short you NEED this game in your lives","hours":24.3,"funny_percent":0.11290322580645161,"helpful_percent":0.7782258064516129}
{"review":"Deadpool is one of the most popular heroes in the Marvel Universe, a fan favorite. High Moon Studios, one of my favorite gaming companies, and creators of the Transformers: War for Cybertron/Fall of Cybertron, are the guys behind this game, and with the budget they were given, they did a pretty great job. The game itself is beyond funny, the upgrade/weapon system rules. The one major flaw with this game is that most of the levels look the same. There are about 5 different levels at most throughout the game but besides that; Deadpool is a fantastic game that serves long time fans well. High Moon made Deadpool exactly how he is in the comics. 7.5/10","hours":11.7,"funny_percent":0.0070921985815602835,"helpful_percent":0.8014184397163121}
{"review":"This is a game to get for any deadpool fan for the classic 4th wall breaks, one liners and overall comedy of it.","hours":0.7,"funny_percent":0.09090909090909091,"helpful_percent":0.9272727272727272}
{"review":"It's back! Finally! I had to laugh quite often while playing the game and it's a nice take on the otherwise so serious super hero games.","hours":11.6,"funny_percent":0.09523809523809523,"helpful_percent":0.7714285714285715}
{"review":"As a huge Deadpool fan, I was sold on this game almost immediately. I mean, how could you not be? It's got the classic Deadpool humor, and the game play is great. You get to enjoy a wide array of weapons and fighting styles, play through a decent chunk of levels, and listen to Deadpool the entire time.  It's a game made for Deadpool fans, in every sense. It's combat is similar to, but not as good as, Batman Arkham Asylum/City. It's a blast for the humor, though.","hours":10.2,"funny_percent":0.008,"helpful_percent":0.776}
{"review":"Deadpool is a third-person hack'n'slash action game revolving around the mentally unstable mercenary and anti-hero from the Marvel Universe and was developed by California-based High Moon Studios, better known for their previous games such as Transformers: War for Cybertron and Fall of Cybertron.  STORY The story is fairly simple: Deadpool hangs out in front of his TV and gets a call from his agent with the offer to get his own video game, so after taking a brief look at the script, Deadpool, accompanied by the two voices in his head, rolls out to start kicking some butt, defeating the evil Mister Sinister (because every games has to have a bad guy) and saving humanity, the world, the universe and whatnot. Deadpool is aware of the fact that he is inside his own video game at all times, so a lot of the dialogues revolve around this fact and he will often speak to or about you (the player) directly, which makes for some hilarious conversations between him and other characters in the game, such as X-Men like Wolverine or Rogue.  HUMOR The basic story alone could hardly carry the game, so an essential part of what makes the game so much fun are the hilariously stupid dialogues and tons of WTF-moments. The humor in the game is often pretty immature but fits like a glove for a whacky character such as Deadpool and actually made me almost spill my drink more than once. It's entertainment on a relatively low level, but perfect for an hour or two when you just want to turn your brain off and have some fun.  VISUALS Obviously being a console port, the game doesn't offer many PC-specific graphics settings apart from brightness, fullscreen, resolution, VSync and graphics presets (low, medium, high, extra), but despite this fact the game still looks pretty good and runs smooth with only a few occasional FPS drops. Level and character design is also pretty decent for what it is.   GAMEPLAY The gameplay basically consist of fast-paced close combat and while you do have a couple ranged weapons such as pistols, shotguns or rifles, the focus definitely lies on your melee weapons. Unfortunately, there are only 3 of them: Swords, Sais and Hammers. Another unfortunate thing is that the combat as such feels rather weak and uninspired. While there generally is nothing wrong with fighting waves after waves of enemies, it gets quite repetative when you execute the same moves over and over again because there aren't any combos or special moves to bring in some variety. You do have a couple special attacks that can be unleashed by filling up your Momentum-Meter, but it takes quite a bit to fill it up and the attacks as such don't really feel powerful or devastating enough to really make a difference.  You can extensively upgrade all of your weapons and Deadpool directly via DP points (gained by collecting them in the levels or killing enemies), but most of the upgrades feel like they have very little or no effect on the combat or the damage you deal. A game like this could've really used some epic and devastating weapons or upgrades where you both see and feel what a huge damage they deal.   Between the fighting areas there are occasional stealth sequences (with the most hilarious sneaking character animation in a video game ever, btw) where you can take out enemies silently with some pretty gorey finishing moves. Furthermore, there are a couple minigames, puzzles and dream-like sequences in the game. None of them are really essential for the story or the game as such, but they give you a bit time to take a breath from the fast-paced action and some of them, such as a sidescrolling platformer minigame, add a nice bit of change to the gameplay.  PLAYTIME & REPLAYABILITY The story consists of 8 fairly lengthy levels and beating the game on Veteran difficulty took me roughly 8 hours, which I consider a decent enough playtime for a game like this. Apart from replaying the story for the LOL-factor, you can try your luck in one of the 8 Challenge maps to fight your way to the top of the online leaderboards. 2 more challenge maps are available through the Merc with a Map Pack DLC, but if you're not into wave-based challenge modes, you probably can save the money. Other than that, there's nothing else to do in the game.  CONCLUSION Deadpool is fun. Plain and stupid fun. If you expect an immersive and touching story, profound characters or challenging gameplay that will put your skills to the test, this game is definitely not for you. If you want a couple hours of brainless entertainment, look no further and get this game!","hours":7.8,"funny_percent":0.02,"helpful_percent":0.94}
{"review":"Its entertaining but not worth the $20 price tag that it usually is discounted to. I was able to get it for $10 and considered it worth the money. The gameplay is good enough if not slightly repetative, the graphics are dated but still good looking, the voice acting is on point, and the story, while funny, is simple yet perfectly fits with Deadpool's personality.","hours":12.8,"funny_percent":0.10256410256410256,"helpful_percent":0.9487179487179487}
{"review":"Recommending this one solely for Deadpool fans.  In terms of gameplay, nothing is horrid, but other games (such as Ninja Gaiden and Max Payne) have done it better, which leaves the game's humour as its only defining point.   Category A: If you're a fan of Deadpool (specifically the Deadpool comics from writer Daniel Way), you'll play this from start to finish with a massive grin, and I honestly have to commend it for being genuinely funny rather than today's video game norm of cramming a load of barely-funny-the-first-time-you-hear-them memes in.  Category B: If you're not a fan of Deadpool, you'll probably just find the humour annoying and get stuck-up on the ho-hum gameplay and level design.  Category A: Recommended. Category B: Not recommended. Delete where appropriate.  Another note: Even though Nolan North is the most overused entity to ever walk the earth, I have to give him credit for this one. Seems like he has more in his repertoire than generic white hero guys, as he fits Deadpool like a glove.  Oh, and its pretty short.","hours":7.5,"funny_percent":0.010752688172043012,"helpful_percent":0.7526881720430108}
{"review":"I nearly didn't bother with this, but decided to purchase it as I used to love my pulp super heroes. :) The game started off very similar to Duke Nukem 3D with respect to using the bathroom, except this was really funny. The humor in the game is a refereshing change from most games that I play and the combat is pretty simple to pick up using a combination of a couple of keys. Using these see''s your Katana's flying like the wind, with Witcher like sword trails abounding.   Enemies do seem rather easy to despatch at first, but you'll soon be trying to dodge bullets to survive. Thankfully one of your attributes is a teleport sytem, which enables you to move around randomly. The upgrade system is straighforwards, collect the tokens throughout the game world, that are equivalent to cash. These can then be spent on upgrading your weapons and buying new ones. Skills are unloked on the way.  Graphically the game looks excellent and, more importantly, so far no glitches.   I'd certasinly recommend this to anyone into super heroe type games,It's a decent price in the US, CIS and UK, but the EU is paying way over the odds at 63% above the average price, wheras, unusually Australia is getting it 25% cheaper than most places.","hours":5.7,"funny_percent":0.02,"helpful_percent":0.78}
{"review":"- Gameplay: mediocre - Graphics: mediocre  + Humour: Off da hook!  --> best game on steam. Buy it now.","hours":36.1,"funny_percent":0.9565217391304348,"helpful_percent":0.7391304347826086}
{"review":"This was a great run around button masher, add in the adult style humor from dead pool and BAM money well spent.","hours":14.8,"funny_percent":0.1111111111111111,"helpful_percent":0.8222222222222222}
{"review":"Fun game, but way overpriced.","hours":0.5,"funny_percent":0.038461538461538464,"helpful_percent":0.7884615384615384}
{"review":"Captures the humour of Deadpool perfectly. It's not crazy revolutionary gameplay or story wise, kind of basic actually, but that's not the point of this game. It delieverd on all of its promises and more.","hours":7.6,"funny_percent":0.02702702702702703,"helpful_percent":0.8648648648648649}
{"review":"With the movie coming in 2016, no better way to get hyped than to read some Deadpool comics and play his game!!","hours":22.8,"funny_percent":0.041666666666666664,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"There are people who recently just paid $100-$200 for this game and its back on steam... HA HA HA HA HA","hours":7,"funny_percent":1.7410358565737052,"helpful_percent":0.6055776892430279}
{"review":"Compralo si sos inteligente, si no ahorrate el tiempo, la plata, y el intento de entender. Simplemente, Deadpool ~<3","hours":15.2,"funny_percent":0.18181818181818182,"helpful_percent":0.8181818181818182}
{"review":"Suck it Wolverine, I'm back.","hours":13.6,"funny_percent":1.851063829787234,"helpful_percent":0.723404255319149}
{"review":"Deadpool is the best comic book hero Marvel-DC-Vertigo-Dark horse hahhh nobody compares to him he is the coolest handsomest and awesomest of em all♡This game is a masterpiece!In all my years of gaming,i never played something as stupidly awesome as Deadpool the game its so great,amazing,funny definitely gets 100/10 from me.  *There i did!I praised your silly game can i have the busty fangirl you promised now Deadpool?!*  *Edit Deadpool promised to send the girl to me if the sales get raised so don't just stand there reading my review BUY IT NOW! ","hours":10.2,"funny_percent":0.6382978723404256,"helpful_percent":0.7659574468085106}
{"review":"Goods and contras: (+) Funny. ✓  (Watch a video about it, because you may not like this kind of jokes.)  Here is a good example video! (+) Easy combat system. ✓  (+) Good voice acting. ✓  (-) Checkpoint save system. ✗  (-) It prefers Controller to Keyboard / Mouse. ✗  (If you like Controller, then it isn’t problem for you.) (-) You have to have a Mouse with at least with 3 extra buttons on it! Without them, I don’t know how to play well with it. ✗  Crash, bug, glitch: I didn’t notice any bug. (Except, the achievement system. Read about more below.)   My personally opinion: I liked the ‘Duke Nukem’ and ’Shadow Warrior’ games because they made me laugh.  And I’ve seen the ‘Deadpool’ film and I liked it too!  So, it wasn’t unsure that I had to buy this game. :)   Recommendation: I recommend this game to those who:  Liked the ‘Duke Nukem’, ’Shadow Warrior’. Both or one of them.  Liked the ‘Deadpool’ film / movie.  Likes this kind of jokes. Here is a good example video!  To the Achievement-Hunters: The achievement system is a bit buggy. (Like in Darksider 1)  You can’t be sure that the achievement will unlock after you’ve done everything well. It happened with me only with times. Two of the achievements unlocked the second time. One of them I had to try four times. :(  But therefore, I made a solution!  Here is my ‘Deadpool - Achievement save files’ Steam Guide. You can download the save files and try again to get the missed achievement more easily. More details in the guide page.   And one more thing. The achievement of  DP? Know madness Complete the game on Ultra-Violence! Difficulty  is not so hard, but! Because of the checkpoint system it is really annoying to watch again-and-again-and-again the cut scenes, conversations, or animations every time as you died.","hours":29.9,"funny_percent":0.06666666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.8666666666666667}
{"review":"Fun, yet drawn out  Deadpool is a fun and very humorous game developed by High Moon Studios and published by Activision. You play as Deadpool himself in a crazy 4th breaking colorful adventure.....But is that really all?   Gameplay  Gameplay has got a fair amount to do, and takes notes from God Of War, and the Arkham games in terms of how battles are done. Sometimes as you're playing, you may have small opportunities to try something interesting, such as the game changing it's system to be like a platformer, or topdown game like the first Zelda. During the game, you'll also have interesting quicktime events as well. The game tries to keep it interesting from time to time; however, you will find at times the game is drawning out a little long in the tooth with battles, example being, you run to a room, bad guys, and then you run a few more steps, more bad guys, and this can go on for quite awhile. On a brightnote, you are treated to some really funny moments and 4th Wall jokes to lighten the mood. You do have an opportunity to become better by earning DP points, and can earn more depending on your combos and how you perfom, but be ready to fight hard, because you will need lots of DP points to gain ground on your weapons as you go forward.  Graphics Graphics are fairly good for 2013, but do have a lack of polish to them. You can see in the cutscenes, they're rendered rather poorly, and during gameplay, a lot of lacking 2D shading is around. It's not terrible looking, but I can see this game aging poorly down the line.   Sound  Taking Deadpool himself, voiced by Nolan North (Uncharted's Nathan Drake), Nolan does an actually very good performance of Deadpool, complimenting the environment, and surroundings. He is the show, and he lives it up. This is one of the strongest points for the game, as without a well voiced Deadpool, there is no game to even enjoy. Props to High Moon for this cast choice. As for the rest of the sounds, they're ok at best. They take a bunch of Casino sounds, and bullet sounds and you hear a lot of that. The X-Men voice actors are just OK as well, which I might understand considering they're not the reason you play, but it would of been nice if the voice actors added a little life to them.  Controls. On and off here. Most of the time they work, and sometimes, when opening a Chest or pressing the command it wants you to press, Deadpool will move into position and nothing will happen. Sometimes, I found myself pressing the command 3 or 4 times until the game moved forward with the action.   Overall  Deadpool is not a terrible game, but it lacks a lot more than it should have. The environments are mostly bland, and at times you'll find yourself very bored with moving forward. I wouldn't recommend this at full price, and I barely recommend it at all. Nolan North gives a great performance, but really carries a game that isn't helping at all. The colors are dull, the gameplay is standard, and the battles up until the final boss fight are all just disapointing and tiring. If you're going to play it, play it on a rainy day.  6.5/10","hours":8.5,"funny_percent":0.10714285714285714,"helpful_percent":0.8214285714285714}
{"review":"A-W-E-S-O-M-E!!!! It follows and shows the real comic Deadpool, with the same style of talking, acting and with all his crazyness. Unfortunately, it's out of steam market, but if you can get it elsewhere, worth every (expensive) penny spend in it.","hours":1.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.88}
{"review":"You're not playing it for the clunky and mediocre combat.  You're playing it for Nolan North (Ryan Reynolds, eat your equally glorious heart out).   You're playing it for those unrivalled fourth wall tropes.  You're playing it for the perfect equilibrium of crudeness versus charm.  You're playing with Deadpool. Not in the 53xy way.","hours":17.3,"funny_percent":0.4074074074074074,"helpful_percent":0.8518518518518519}
{"review":"I'm touching myself tonight.","hours":10.2,"funny_percent":2.0681818181818183,"helpful_percent":0.7272727272727273}
{"review":"Product received for free  You get to ♥♥♥♥♥-slap Wolverine.  I think this alone should be the top reason to buy it!","hours":1.7,"funny_percent":0.5106382978723404,"helpful_percent":0.7021276595744681}
{"review":"I would have to give it a 10/10 loving the comic and now this. I rather enjoy this game i would recommend full price and or on sale. Might not be for every one tho keep in mind i find it alot like the comic.","hours":13.9,"funny_percent":0.07407407407407407,"helpful_percent":0.7777777777777778}
{"review":"ANCRON's Deadpool's review of Deadpool the game.  3rd person, hack and slash, action game. It's about \"antihero\" called Deadpool (Wade Winston Wilson), disfigured and mentally unstable mercenary with the superhuman ability of an accelerated healing factor. He is known as the \"Merc with a Mouth\" because of his talkative nature and tendency to break the fourth wall, which is used by writers to humorous effect. This game is not to be taken seriously at any point. Some humor may be rude, offensive and plain bootlegged but it's the nature of Wade (Deadpool), so don't question it and just go with the flow.  [Deadpool]: I think someone's at the door Andrew. [ANCRON]: Oh, really? Can you keep an eye on this? [Deadpool]: Yeah, sure. [ANCRON]: Thanks man, be right back. [Deadpool]: Hmm what we have here, review of my game... hmmm..let's see.  [Deadpool's Inner voice]: Story is about me, Deadpool, of course.. well who else, and some of his \"sidekicks\", like boring Wolverine, and my BABES Psylocke, Rogue and other low tier heroes. I don't even know why we keep Wolverine, he's short and too serious all the time, real mood killer.. and girls.. well girls have..  [Inner voice 1]: HOLY TITTS!! [Deadpool]: Not you again..  [Inner voice 2]: Hey don't forget me! [Inner voice 1]: So we gonna meet Rogue today? [Deadpool]: Would be nice. [Inner voice 2]: Rogue.... [Deadpool]: Wonder if she likes pancakes. [Inner voice 1]: She will love our pancakes! [Inner voice 2]: Yeah. [Deadpool]: Well, anyway. Back to my review.  [Deadpool's Inner voice]: I saw Rogue in my dream today, I wonder what she does this evening, will have to call her.  [Inner voice 2]: Yeah would be nice. [Inner voice 1]: I love Rogue! [Inner voice 2]: Yeah, she's really soft.  [Deadpool's Inner voice]: Let me see... yeah we don't need all that.  Gameplay is your basic hack and slash experience, with ranged or melee weapons. You receive experience from defeated enemies as well as randomly scattered XP orbs, that you can find throughout the levels and use to improve, unlock and learn new skills, weapons, etc. Deadpool can use guns, grenades, sais, knives, hammers, katanas and other weapons. You have your basic attacks, special moves and finishers for every weapon type. Attacks with smaller weapons tend to be more faster and do less damage compared to ones with katanas and hammers, and depending on enemy some may be more effective than others.  [Deadpool]: Yeah, yeah.. I punch stuff, stuff falls out and I become stronger and get the BABES! [Inner voice 1]: TITTS!! [Inner voice 2]: Mmm so soft..  There's a lot of nasty, rude and simply stupid humor throughout the game. [content deleted] [Deadpool]: He really like that \"throughout\" word. [Inner voice 1]: Yeah, haha. [Inner voice 2]: But he's our friend! [Deadpool]: Yeah, but it's my game! Enough of this, just buy it, it's really fun! [Inner voice 1]: Yeah we promise! [Inner voice 2]: For realz! [Deadpool]: He's coming back! Act natural. [Inner voice 1]: Oh shh.. [Inner voice 2]: Hide!!  [ANCRON]: Who were you talking to? [Deadpool]: Umm, noone so who was it? [Inner voice 1]: He doesn't have a clue what we did! [Inner voice 2]: Shhhhh.. he'll hear you. [ANCRON]: Well, Psylocke came by. She's free this evening and accepted my invitation to cinema. [Deadpool]: WOW! Really?! Cool, second base and all haha! Is Rogue coming too? [ANCRON]: Thanks. Well I could ask her, you wanted to come with us? [Inner voice 2]: I bet he would, he's been jumping out of his pants for Rogue lately. [Inner voice 1]: Haha, his pants, good one. [Deadpool]: Hey I don't wear pants! [Inner voice 1]: Oh right. Wait what!? [ANCRON]: What pants? What are you talking about? [Deadpool]: Well pants that I don't wear because I'm in bodysuit, so why would I need pants. So about that call? [ANCRON]: Oh, yeah I will as soon as I finish my review.  [Deadpool walks away]  [ANCRON]: What the hell happened to my revie... DEADPOOOOOOL!! [Inner voice 1]: Haha, he's mad. [Inner voice 2]: Yeah.  [Deadpool]: Don't question it, just buy the damn game. I worked my butt off on it.   /=/ Excuse me and Deadpool for any vulgar or inappropriate content in this review /=/  [Deadpool]: Not really... [ANCRON]: Deadpool be nice. [Deadpool]: Alright. I'm sorry. ;8) [Deadpool whispers]: Not really.  P.S. Those who played the game will understand, why I wrote this review in such way.","hours":9,"funny_percent":2.260869565217391,"helpful_percent":0.6666666666666666}
{"review":"I just saw that this game came back to Steam. And this is the best comic book adaption into a video game I've ever played. The portayal of Deadpool is perfect. The gameplay isn't anything new or special, but's it's fluent and enjoyable. What makes this game so good, is it's dark humor. I had a lot of good laughs with Deadpoolio. On top of that the voice acting is on point. 9/10","hours":33,"funny_percent":0.16666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.9444444444444444}
{"review":"Deadpool is a fun game, but obviously it's more fun to those familiar with the character. And of course, you have to like him too.  As for the game, melee is fun, guns are cool, bombs are effective and as the game progresses it all blends into a fun milkshake of mechanics. You'll be stabbing, shooting and setting out bear traps for the bigger enemies. There's some platforming involved and it's not super great, but it's not horribly bad either.  Little side activities add to the fun, though there are not many. Some special appearances from some of your favorite X-Men and the ever interesting self aware perspective where Deadpool know he's in a game.  On the whole, a fun little game, though not very long. Short and sweet. I do plan to play it again on hard mode. Marvel fans especially, pick it up.  I'm Mr.Venture and I approve this message.","hours":16.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9444444444444444}
{"review":"Con deadpool aprendi que el juego puede ser un asco, pero con un buen personaje y una buena trama no importa que el gameplay sea choto  Es divertido y con buenos chistes posta, pero tiene muchos defectos como el apuntado, el sonido, bugs de teleport entre otras giladas, pero si sos un fan del tipejo este te va a encantar, es re disfrutable pero muy corto (5hs en normal)  Instabuy para todo fan, pero solo recomendable en una oferta ","hours":15.3,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7647058823529411}
{"review":"For the most part, I love this game. It's a really fun game if you love Deadpool and these kinds of games. The Deadpool comedy made me laugh a few times while playing, and the gameplay is fun with the ability to upgrade and turn Deadpool into a ♥♥♥♥ing killing machine. The only thing I don't like is how fast you can beat this game. I beat it in practically 1 day, considering my hours of playtime. It'd be really cool if this game got a sequel.","hours":7.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"Deadpool broke the 4th wall in the comics, but now it's time to break it in his own video game.  Deadpool is a game based on the Marvel anti hero of the same name. Deadpool is now in his own video game and he has to kill Mr. Sinister and he meets a few familiar faces along the way.  Deadpool is hack and slash game with guns. Not to mention the game breaks the 4th wall constantly and the game flow changes from a typical hack and slash into a platforming game and then into a top down 8 bit game. The gameplay is this games biggest weakness as it get's boring incredibly fast as nothing is really changed up during the fighting segments. Even the boss fights are the same as the regular enemies. The bosses only have a bigger health bar and that's pretty much it.  Deadpool's biggest strength is the amazing script and Nolan North's voice work as Deadpool. This game had me smiling and laughing the entire time and I loved every minute of it (I'm a big Deadpool fan btw). Deadpool fans will absolutely love the comedy in this game.  The cameos from different X-men are also awesome. Seeing faces like Wolverine and Rouge and Psylocke is just awesome and the comedy Deadpool spews about them is also incredibly awesome if you know the backstory and if you don't you get the option to hear about them in a recap narrated by Deadpool himself.  The game took me 5 hours to finish and apart from the one playthrough there is not much replay value as nothing really changes up. Not to mention there's no new game plus so you can't take the upgrades you got during the first time playing and import them in the second playthrough.  There are challenge maps, but those get incredibly boring incredibly fast so unless you plan on getting a 100% I don't recommend playing them.  Deadpool is also quite easy for the most part. There are some hard parts, but nothing incredibly difficult you won't be able to finish.  The game ran incredibly well. I got a stable 60 FPS and max settings and never had trouble, so I doubt people will run into trouble.  For the current price, I really can't recommend buying Deadpool as much as I love the character. The game while is fun and incredibly funny, it's way too short for 30 euros. If you can get it for a discount, I highly suggest giving it a chance. And if you love Deadpool this is a must own for the comedy itself. I enjoyed the game a lot and I would recommend buying it at a discount.  Final Rating: 7.5/10 - Worth Buying on a discount   If you liked this review please give it a thumbs up and if you disliked, post in the comments what you disliked about the review.  For more reviews follow Snort's Review curator page here - follow for regular updates on reviews for other games!","hours":5.5,"funny_percent":0.13793103448275862,"helpful_percent":0.7586206896551724}
{"review":"+adult humor +no microtransaction +slash+shooter -??","hours":2.2,"funny_percent":0.13793103448275862,"helpful_percent":0.7586206896551724}
{"review":"If you like Deadpool and shooting stuff for 8 hours then you'll enjoy this. If that doesn't sound even remotely good, then you shouldn't bother.","hours":9.4,"funny_percent":0.07142857142857142,"helpful_percent":0.9285714285714286}
{"review":"This game is ♥♥♥♥ing hilarious and Nolan North is the best.   10 of 10 chimichangas, I guess?","hours":7,"funny_percent":0.9148936170212766,"helpful_percent":0.6595744680851063}
{"review":"Cool game.  The gameplay and the graphics are ok. But the fun is high. Especialy the cutscenes are worth it and the comments from Deadpool.","hours":21.9,"funny_percent":0.058823529411764705,"helpful_percent":0.8235294117647058}
{"review":"Best. Hero. Ever.","hours":41.4,"funny_percent":0.2,"helpful_percent":0.64}
{"review":"It's short and outdated, poor graphics, the gameplay is nothing special  But if you like Deadpool you'll probably like this game, looks like devs focused more on the character then on the game itself   It's slightly overpriced, like every Activision, better wait for a sale","hours":6.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8181818181818182}
{"review":"Oh, the 1 liners and unexpected side-quests, including 8-bit tastiness.  The only thing that would have made this even better is Ryan Reynolds, but this is still a sweet game with lots of character development options and mass-slaughter. Kick♥♥♥♥♥sweetness.","hours":7,"funny_percent":0.07142857142857142,"helpful_percent":0.9285714285714286}
{"review":"Yes yes yes YES! This game, THIS GAME IS AWESOME!  It's one of my favorite games, it's perhaps the most funny game I have ever played. This game made me laugh so many times! I must say that I like Deadpool (the character) a lot, I was not really interested before, but when I actually launched it I was blown away by how great it is.  The story is cool, and Deadpool always got some funny comment around the corner, however many of the comments is used over again, but it doesn't really matter because it's still fun. While playing I am always looking forward to the next cuts-cene or scinematic, because Deadpool always got some crazy twisted look on the reality, you get to see things as he sees them, and that makes this game so awesome. It's not too long but it's pretty much a \"standard\" completion time.  If you want to know Deadpool better, and if you want a laugh then get this game!","hours":8.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6944444444444444}
{"review":" YouTube™ Video: TeamHeadKick Music Videos - Boobz n' Beatz - A Deadpool Rap  Views: 881,898 http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RKZ6CpqIXig Click here to watch Injustice Rap by TEAMHEADKICK TEAMHEADKICK brings a comedic retro funk Rap for Deadpool. Enjoy!  They call me Deadpool, I'm hella fast Came to merc the bad guys, and get some♥♥♥♥♥br>Got blades for days, got guns galore Got combo moves, evades and more With bear traps and hand grenades Pull the pistol like a maniac right in your face Poppin off caps, leave a trail of guts Sittin' on my chair, scratchin' my nuts I can't die, I'm invincible But if you'd like to try, then I'll crush your skull Crass and rude, borderline obscene But I'm the funniest ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ that you ever did see And Wolverine is gettin' ♥♥♥♥♥-slapped \"Wake up, Wolvey, no time for a nap.\" We gotta rescue Rogue, ride a roller coaster Grab our gear and head to Genosha  (Deadpool) (Deadpool) (Deadpool)  On a mission to slap a ho But I'm gettin' kinda dizzy, fightin' Vertigo So, slow the roll' you're kinda cute But if you keep this game up then I'm gonna puke! Hangin' with the ladies that are wearin' their skivvies Motorboatin' and playin' with ♥♥♥♥♥♥s Jump across the map in a big♥♥♥♥♥boot Decapitate my enemies, pick up my loot Don't stop when I shoot, full-auto is on Your♥♥♥♥♥is grass, and I'm mowin' the lawn Hot lead to the head, and I won't stop Domino and Psychlocke, makin' it hot But all these ♥♥♥♥♥es are pre-Madonna's I stuff my face with Chimmechangas Taco's and beers, always keepin' it loose Hang on for a minute while I'm droppin' a deuce I'm 'bout to take you all to school with guns and knives (Deadpool) Tellin' jokes and breakin' the rules, I came for the taco's (Deadpool) Playin' with the ladies and my family jewels to bust a nut (Deadpool) 'Bout to throw down with all these fools So come and get some  My favorite girl, I call her Death She got big ol' boobs and butt♥♥♥♥♥breath No stress, one day we will be together Just as soon as I die (and that means never) Hackin' and slashin', like a ninja Don't worry, Sinister, I'm commin' to getcha Double-flippin' jumps, landin' all wreckless Sneakin' up on dudes and leavin' 'em headless Cable any day, big gun, no doubt But he talks too much, so ♥♥♥♥ it, I'm out With a broken neck, I can't see at all Crack it like a crackhead, problem solved X-Men Evolved, doin' air guitar Pettin' the dog, dancin' like a porn star We did it! We rescued Rogue I tried to get some booty, but I got friend-zoned Teleport, because it's cool, when I fall off a ledge (Deadpool) The crazy♥♥♥♥♥guards always lookin' to duel, so click, click, BOOM! (Deadpool) I don't believe in the Golden Rule, I came to get laid (Deadpool) Note to the ladies: I'm not a tool, I'm a sexy ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ (Sexy ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥) (Sexy ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥) (Sexy ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥) (Sexy ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥)  (Deadpool) (Deadpool) (Deadpool) (Dead... Pool...)","hours":7,"funny_percent":0.18571428571428572,"helpful_percent":0.6142857142857143}
{"review":"Для фанатов Нолана Норта и комиксов - нельзя пропускать! Всем остальным рекомендуется десять раз подумать перед покупкой, как игра полный швах, зато как пародия очень хорошо. 7/10","hours":6.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7894736842105263}
{"review":"within 10 minutes of the game i made deadpool take a♥♥♥♥♥♥br> 10/10 would buy again","hours":3.4,"funny_percent":1,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Deadpool is a hack and slash game where you play Deadpool out of the Marvel comics. Deadpool is not your ordinary super hero, he's far from that. He is neither a hero or a villan, he's more an insane mercenary with superpowers which is a fantastic combination. Unlike most games, or movies because he also has a movie since last year, Deadpool likes to break the 4th wall meaning he will talk to you and acknowlegde you as the one watching/playing. He also has a lot of inner conversations with himself which teaches you more about his personality.  The story is pretty simple you, as Deadpool obviously, want to star in your own game like all other famous superheros have their own game. In this game you chase someone to kill for a contract for the x-men but unfortunately for you someone else was first and you want revenge on the killer. Knowing Deadpool there will be jokes all around about everythings and even references to other games. I liked all of the jokes except for the budget jokes, they seemed forced to do every once in a while. What I liked about the budget jokes is the minigames that reference other games, that made up for it. In the story you'll encouter some of the x-men and you see, if you choose so, to get a cool comic like introduction to them if you didn't know them before. The ending was really well done, I expected another battle but the good joke certainly made up for it. After the game I wondered if Nolan North portrayed Deadpool better than Ryan Reynolds but after rewatching the movie again I realised both of these platforms have different standards. What I mean with that is that the game held back on a certain kind of jokes but the movie went full on \"I don't care\" modus which is the reason why I won't compare both of the actors. I feel that if they had the same freedom it would have been different.  The combat in this game is melee weapons like swords or hammers combined with guns and you can mix them and combo them to kill everything in sight. Each weapon, when upgraded a little, unlocks a special momentum combo which you recharge with hurting and killing enemies. In this game they really made the variety of weapons useful, mostly you have in games the broken weapons and the terrible ones which inflict nothing but in this game I felt like fully upgraded every weapon was equal in terms of usefulness and damage. In this game you can also teleport for a short distance and you can also use that to counter attacking enemies following up with a nice animation but I don't think it's necessary. It's been more a pain in the foot to me than something useful because countering forces you to stand still for a short while which makes you a shooting target for all other enemies. There's also a possiblity to stealth kill enemies rarely but every time you get offered such a kill you should take the chance because they are very nice and every weapon has it's unique kind of execution.   What I generally don't like is the difficulty spiking in this game, it's really inbalanced. First of all when you play the story the second time you get to keep all weapons and DP, points for killing enemies, from previous run which makes it generally easier but it didn't matter after all. There is easy, veteran and ultra-violent. To me easy and veteran was the same kind of experience to me, I didn't had any trouble beating both of those difficulties but ultra-violent is a whole different story. Once you stand in the wrong position for one second on this difficulty and you get 4 bullets in your chest and you are 'dead'. Dead in this game just means that you get placed at last checkpoints since Deadpool can't die at all theoretically. Adding to this you already have enemies who take 3 shotgun shots to the chest and still live, and those are just the grunts with armour. In veteran the same grunts just got two shot like the rest of them.  In the end a good recommendation for Marvel fans, comics fans, superhero movie fans and gamers who enjoy hack and slashes.","hours":18.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}



{"review":"\"Oh, i just bought this gam-\" -Killed by a Bee. \"Ok, one more try\" - Killed by a Bee. \"100 days!, 2 giants, 4 seasons, I'm invincible!\" - Killed by a Bee.  The Tim Burton style fits this game perfectly, with a bit of survival, and fighting.  >You will fight Giants, Spiders, Metal Chess Things  >You will find Berries, Carrots, Bunnies  >You will have to kill the Bunnies to get Morsel, Pigs/Beefalos/Tallbirds (yes, birds that are, guess what, TALL) to get Meat, Spiders/Merms/Werepigs to get Monster Meat  >You will have to cook all of them if you want to survive.  >You will have to build a shelter if you want to survive.  >You will be INSANE, totally INSANE.  >You will see things. A lot of things.  >You will starve.  >But most importantly... YOU WILL DIE. A LOT.","hours":251,"funny_percent":0.6208580397628183,"helpful_percent":0.942448552493896}
{"review":"One of my absolute favorite games. It's quite a challenging game, especially until you get the hang of things. It's a dark, twisted survival game where pretty much everything is trying to kill you. You've got to scavenge, build things, and defend yourself, all while trying to pay attention to the environment (weather) and the fullness of your stomach. The developers also seem to be constantly updating the game and adding huge amounts of awesome content for free. It just keeps expanding and you just keep wanting to play again and again. Highly recommended!  October 2014 Edit: Multiplayer is coming to Don't Starve! It's currently in closed beta at the moment, but should be coming along eventually!","hours":100.6,"funny_percent":0.007352941176470588,"helpful_percent":0.9404411764705882}
{"review":"Do I recommend this game? Hell yes. Every single time you start a new game file, it's an entirely random generated world where nothing is the same as the last. You can play this game for weeks and still not discover all its secrets. It's a sandbox strategy game that keeps you on your toes for anything and everything that's trying to kill you. And believe me, there's a hundred and one monsters who all want your face on a platter.   GAME TIPS:  1. Always have a means to make fire. Always. 2. Pigs are your friends. Build your base near them. 3. Spiders are not. 4. BEWARE THE BEES.  5. Beefalo herds are awesome. Fill your pockets with their endless poo. Great fire fuel. 6. Prepare for periodic hound attacks. Make spears and tooth traps. 7. Pick flowers.  8. Not starving is the LEAST of your worries.","hours":172.7,"funny_percent":0.3275862068965517,"helpful_percent":0.9672413793103448}
{"review":"Don't Starve is one of the games I will never forget!I'm sure you ask yourself why? Let me explain: When I saw the game I were like ,,Naahhhh I'm not going to buy this.'' but a few days later I looked a second time and tought ,,Why not?It looks funny. And it says you can celebrate with your piggy friends.'' that was when I bought it. I can tell you I got addicted to the game. The first day I played 12 h's. I told my brother and my friend they should buy it. They did it and got addicted, too. I think nearly every Computer can run the graphics and the the characters are funny, too. With every game I started a new story war born. For example I started my first game and forgot to make a fire when the night came up I died and I was like ,,Why?I should have know''. And I learned with every new day that the game hates me. The game likes to punch you in the face. And the community is amazing. In the forums you can see artist, storywriters, survivers and so on. Pretty fast updates with new content to explore and even merchandise. It's a tip for everyone who like survival games. You will love it.  Graphics: 10/10 Gameplay: 9/10 Sound: 10/10  I hope you enjoyed my review.If yes press the like button :§D","hours":100.5,"funny_percent":0.0252387448840382,"helpful_percent":0.9249658935879945}
{"review":"This survival rougelike is excellent. You are trapped in a cruel, randomly-generated world where everything wants to kill you, and left to fend for yourself in the wilderness. You will start off with nothing, collecting supplies to make a fire and survive your first night. The goal is simple -- survive for as long as possible.  The randomness of the world generation keeps it fresh for every playthrough. There are countless ways to die, ranging from freezing to death to getting mauled by a tentacle. Once you die, you will be forced to start anew, which can be frustrating.  I seriously love this game, and it really is worth picking up. You should also pick up the DLC which adds a lot more challenge to the game. This game is EXTREMELY addicting.","hours":71.3,"funny_percent":0.014970059880239521,"helpful_percent":0.9431137724550899}
{"review":"You desperately fend off Eldritch horrors manifested by your own insanity while you turn your fallen friends' remains into a colossal bat made out of ham and run from a giant badger who shares a fondness for your dead compatriots. The sun begins to set, counting down the seconds before you are struck blind, tethered to a flickering light with the terrors of the night. Forests are mowed down behind you as the beast pursues.  You dive into a sinkhole that dumps you into a pitch black cavern where you are promptly mauled by a horde of spiders and rabbit-people. You scream in terror as the light from above grows fainter, the rabid shrieking of gigantic insects growing louder and louder.  10/10, extremely relaxing game.","hours":182.1,"funny_percent":0.3541666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.9541666666666667}
{"review":"skipped my lunch and dinner playing this game  literally starved/10","hours":13.6,"funny_percent":1.0939809926082364,"helpful_percent":0.8511087645195353}
{"review":"You will die.  Spiders will murder you. Hounds will murder you. Bunnymen will murder you. Trees will murder you. Tentacles will murder you. Shadows will murder you. Giants will murder you. Penguins will obliterate you. Bees will f**king destroy you.  And that's only if you don't starve first.","hours":7.5,"funny_percent":1.4489164086687307,"helpful_percent":0.8962848297213623}
{"review":"A great, fun game to play in your free time. Includes deaths features like: Starvation Overheating Freezing Over-Exposure BEES! Tree Giants of Meanie-ness Going Insane Death (The funny thing is, most of the time you don't die from starvation...)","hours":41.1,"funny_percent":0.9971988795518207,"helpful_percent":0.9103641456582633}
{"review":"Don’t Starve starts off slow and punishing and continues to get even harder as you play. Its merciless difficulty coupled with its monotonous gameplay can leave some players feeling frustrated and bored. Those who enjoy a good challenge, however, will relish in the satisfaction they’ll get when they manage to outlive their previous record or clear the game’s evil Adventure mode. It may not be for everyone, but if you’re looking for a roguelike game filled with charm and challenge, be sure not to miss Don’t Starve.","hours":9.6,"funny_percent":0.030612244897959183,"helpful_percent":0.9285714285714286}
{"review":"This game is fantastic.  It combines roguelike and survival gameplay, dumping you in a strange territory to explore, forage, learn, craft and progress on your own terms. For the most part, the controls and interface are intuitive, so it's simply a matter of deciding where to go or what to do.  The game is called Don't Starve, and hunger is indeed a major theme. If you go a few days without food, you will die. That said, there are plenty of other things to kill you - a variety of animals and monsters, environmental hazards, and your own dwindling sanity. To battle this, you rely on building your own equipment, consumables and structures, ranging from weapons and armor to crock pots to unwholesome magical devices.  Don't Starve can be brutal, so you should expect to die, but just making good progress is rewarding in itself. You unlock new characters as you play, each with little touches or specialties to diversify your experience. And while there are some pretty powerful or useful items you can make, there are still a lot of ways to play, and they're all valid (which is good, because sometimes you don't have much choice.)  If you're bored or frustrated, you can change your experience by starting a new game and adding or removing features. If you're tired of fighting certain monsters, you can just turn them off. I haven't messed with this myself, as I like the feeling of surprise, and playing the game as-is, but the developers have left the doors wide open for custom play experiences. In the same way, you can make use of a wealth of user-created elements.  There are a few things I missed for awhile, like the fact that you can view a map of everywhere you've been so far, but overall the game doesn't suffer much from lack of tutorial or hand-holding. You can go read everything on a wiki if you prefer, but this is a game where I don't actually begrudge trial and error learning. Encountering strange new things and deciding what to do with them is a ton of fun, even if it sometimes gets you killed.  A warning (at least from my perspective) - this game is so immersive, I prefer to keep playing it for hours on end once I start. It's not a game I enjoy having to stop, unless I come to good stopping point like dying at the end of a long survival run. In fact, sometimes I forget to eat for a long time when I play this. So, yeah. Irony.","hours":267.5,"funny_percent":0.29545454545454547,"helpful_percent":0.9715909090909091}
{"review":"Day 19: I AM GOD OF THIS WORLD!  Day 20: Killed by a flock of wild penguins....   10/10","hours":14.6,"funny_percent":0.007989347536617843,"helpful_percent":0.7976031957390146}
{"review":"Day 32: Killed by snail... Now I've seen everything.","hours":161.3,"funny_percent":0.7084282460136674,"helpful_percent":0.8177676537585421}
{"review":"Boy Scouts should be required to play Don't Starve before going on any camping trips – they could even get a badge for it, in the form of a gaping, pointy-toothed wormhole. Or maybe a friendly campfire.Don't Starve is, at its most basic level, a survival game. It features crafting, mysticism, science and all manner of nasty creatures, especially once it gets dark. In order to stay alive, players have to use the surrounding flora and fauna to craft increasingly complex tools, starting with a simple axe and building up to items as intricate as lightning rods and carpeted flooring.When you die in Don't Starve, your current world is destroyed, along with the things you created while surviving in it. There are advanced tricks to escape death – constructing a Meat Effigy or finding an Amulet – but rest assured that you will most likely die before gaining the experience required to craft or dig up these items. A Touch Stone will also resurrect fallen players, but finding that structure early on is more luck than certain death. I did find it, at the beginning of my second run, but I didn't know what the strange circle surrounded by pig heads was, so I didn't use it, and when I died, I was dead.That said, curiosity and a desire to poke at unfamiliar things are essential in Don't Starve.Dying is a fundamental gameplay aspect. Death won't always come from starvation; it inhabits many forms, including beasts large and small, and the terrors that hide in the night. A clock-like status bar in the upper right corner of the map shows how many days you've survived and the current time, and it provides health, hunger and mental gauges. It's an efficient system, the clock hand moving from yellow to red to blue – day, afternoon and night – and circles of health systems draining without proper care. One glance and it's instantly clear how long until you have to build a fire, or if you need to eat or rest.On top of a solid survival game, Don't Starve is a deep, layered experiment in crafting and exploration. Throughout the biomes are wormholes that transport players to different lands, which offer new materials for building science machines – which unlock new crafting recipes – and heartier structures. New characters are unlocked with experience – 20 points per day survived. This is all in Sandbox Mode, but Don't Starve also features an Adventure Mode, which players can enter by finding and activating Maxwell's Door. Adventure Mode is Don't Starve's campaign, pitting Wilson against Maxwell, the demonic genius who brought Wilson to the wilderness in the first place. It's five grueling chapters – upon first entrance, players lose all items and crafting recipes, and can only carry four items between Adventure Mode chapters. Die in Adventure Mode and you're spat back out into Sandbox Mode, precisely where you left it.For its art style, deceptively dark vibe and experimental approach, Don’t Starve is certainly worth a look.","hours":27.8,"funny_percent":0.19327731092436976,"helpful_percent":0.9159663865546218}
{"review":"Don’t Starve tries its best to be a haunting challenge, with a Tim Burton art style. It does a good job.     The core gameplay is simply trying to survive. gathering materials and food during the day, and huddling by a fire, trying to craft useful tools at night. As the day to night cycle progresses, so does the seasonal cycle. After a couple days, winter comes, making it harder to collect food, and hunt. The nights become longer and the days become shorter as you huddle by your fire, trying not to freeze to death. During winter, your homemade farms stop becoming useful. Huntable animals disappear and other more dangerous animals come in swarms.     As far as the story goes, there is an oddly rich story, which can only be experienced by skilled players. Whenever a new game is started, Maxwell, the games antagonist, warns him to get food. The real story mode cannot be achieved unless the player has found the four pieces, and then moves to the next level. After beating a few levels, they reach the epilogue, where maxwell is unlocked as a playable character and the game is complete.     Don't starve’s graphics and art style is very Tim Burton. The monsters, alone have a scary but yet cute feel to them. The sound of the game is very creepy yet welcoming. depending on what the player is doing at the time. The music changes whenever the player is in combat or not, making the combat feel even more immersive.     Don’t stare also has a large amount of options. Not only can you pick your character but you can also modify the world and its many resources. Players can make the world a food rich wonderland, or a barren wasteland, randomized each time. Each playable character has its own stats, and buffs/debuffs, tailoring to each possible playstyle.      The in game crafting provides a large variety of machines, tools, farms and structures. The player can craft anything from carpets, campfires, spears, drying racks, walls, bee-based mines and a large variety of clothing, all with special perks. Winter coats to keep you warm, mining hats to provide light, feather hats to increase how many birds there are, armour to reduce damage, and a flower garland to keep sanity up.       Don't starve does lots of things right.    The art style and sound design is amazing for this game  The crafting feels organic and worth the effort.  The clothes in the game change not only how the player looks, but also has bonuses.   The Monsters in the game are interesting and fun to hunt.  The many varieties of food make the game more interesting  The story is enjoyable, even if you don't play through it.   The antagonist is one of the best “bad guys” i've seen in games for a while  The different playable characters are fantastic   The game has a customizable world setting.  The game has playing cards   Don't starve does a few thing wrong.   The cave mechanic is hardly explored until late game  The game has a few bugs still needing to be fixed  The follower mechanic should be touched up  The vanilla game can be a tad boring  The player may rage-quit after dieing on a long time world.  The game lacks achievements  The game lacks vanilla co-op   Don’t Starve isn't only a magnificent survival game, but it is also a well told story, for those who care to play it. I believe that there is a large market for this game, and that market keeps on growing. If you don't already own this game, pick it up on sale. Its on sale almost every winter and summer sale. I payed full price for it and i think its worth it. ","hours":83.3,"funny_percent":0.09883720930232558,"helpful_percent":0.9534883720930233}
{"review":"Wow. Just wow. First try.. didn't make it past the first night. 2nd Try, Day 3. 3rd Try Day 7. Loving this game!   I just came from playing 30 Hrs of Rust and this game is a breath of fresh air. Lots of things to do, research and survive. And best of all, no worrying about jerk-like community members ruining the game.  Love this so much I went out and bought a background!   Recommend!","hours":11.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9117647058823529}
{"review":"Updated now to include the massive lot of new content and Klei's commitment to the game -  So. Tim Burton designs minecraft, this is what it would look like. That's the quick version. The not so quick version involves you attempting to survive in a world which is pretty much entirely out to kill you (even the trees will try to kill you...), having been dumped there by a mysterious character called Maxwell. It is down to you to, as with many Minecraft games, start from the ground up by collecting flint and twigs, and putting together rudimentary tools, before hacking down trees and mining rocks for the more advanced stuff. As your toolset grows, so do your options, and thankfully, so does your diet choices (berries work for a while, but there's nothing like cooked rabbit).  The game now has a fair bit of lore and background to it, and with the addition of caves, and sub areas, now has a more \"exploratory\" feel on top. Combined with the Steam Workshop, a slew of unlockable characters, and a soundtrack which I seriously suggest everyone who picks up the game -also- collects, results in an outstanding offering that will appeal to survivalists and minecrafters alike.","hours":21.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8411910669975186}
{"review":"This game offers hours of endless fun (and sometimes, frustration)! Addictive is an understatement. With the addition of new updated content frequently to explore, this game has not got old and continues to throw in new thrills.","hours":84.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8386167146974063}
{"review":"Don't Starve is an extraordinary survival game with nice graphic and various game contents. You are sent into a strange world by Maxwell. You have to fight for your life and try to survive in the world. And figure out the true story behind at the same time.  +Multiple Characters with unique characteristic, special ability, and playthrough. +Random generated map. Every new game is in a unique new world. +Tons of in-game contents. Such as various creatures, biomes, weapons, surviving kits, environment items, even magical stuffs. +Nice hand-drawn style graphic with hilarious animations. +Focus on survival. Lots of tools and ways to survive in the strange world. +Simple and non-redundant crafting system. Every items are useful for your survival and no meaningless stuffs. +Days and nights, season change. Try hard to survive in a vivid and dynamic environment. +2 game modes: Sandbox Survival and Story Adventure. Find the entrance of adventure mode and figure out the truth. +Steam Workshop supported. Tons of mods to customize your game experience. +Full controller supported. Special buttons settings for controller. +Incoming online feature: Don't Starve Together.  -Some mods do not support controller.  In comparison with MineCraft, Don't Starve is much like a survival game not a creative construction sandbox game. If you like to fight for survival, you must have to try Don't Starve. You'll like it!   Don't Starve 是一個豐富且畫質精美的生存遊戲，你被Maxwell送到一個奇怪的世界，必須要為了生存而戰，同時要找到整個事件背後真正的真相。  +非常多獨特角色可選，有不同的個性、特色技能、與遊玩方式。 +隨機產生的地圖，每次的冒險都是全新的獨特地圖。 +五花八門的遊戲內容，例如豐富的生物、氣候、武器、生存工具、環境、甚至還有魔法物品。 +精美的手繪風格畫質以及幽默有趣的角色動畫。 +著重於生存，各種不同的方式在這奇怪的世界中生存。 +簡單扼要的合成系統，每個物品對你的生存都很有幫助，沒有華而不實的無意義物品。 +日夜輪轉、季節變換，在真實動態的環境中求生存。 +兩種遊戲模式: 沙盒生存與故事冒險，找到冒險模式的入口並發掘故事真相。 +Steam工作坊支援，多種模組可自訂改變你的遊戲體驗。 +全手把支援，有特別設計過按鍵給手把使用。 +及將上市多人連線功能: Don't Starve Together。  -某些Mod的作者並沒有提供手把支援，若使用Mod則手把可能會無法使用  相較於MineCraft，這款Don't Starve更像是一個生存遊戲，而不是一個創造建築遊戲，如果你喜歡奮鬥求生的遊戲，你一定要試試看Don't Starve，你一定會喜歡！   This is my mod collection contain mods which enhance the game for convenience but no cheating and not changing the game balance. 這是我的模組收藏清單，包含的模組能強化遊戲功能與增進方便，並著重不作弊、不改變遊戲平衡。  Howar31 - No-Cheat Enhanced Vanilla  By: Howar31 This collection contains all the Mods that improve gaming experience but not change any balance or cheating. You can enjoy the original game with more convenient mechanisms!   PTT Steam板 中文心得 http://www.ptt.cc/bbs/Steam/M.1413919023.A.0AB.html","hours":34.4,"funny_percent":0.039473684210526314,"helpful_percent":0.9276315789473685}
{"review":"No matter now much food you save up, no matter what clothing you create, and no matter how long your beard is, a frog is all it takes to destroy your life and make you rage harder than Leonardo DiCaprio at an Oscars event. 9.5/10 Love it.  Edit: Guess this isn't relevant anymore, but go over and get Don't Starve Together so you can rage harder than Texan at a Donald Trump rally.","hours":20,"funny_percent":2.1965811965811968,"helpful_percent":0.8675213675213675}
{"review":"Tim Burton's Minecraft. ","hours":4.6,"funny_percent":0.07804878048780488,"helpful_percent":0.7814634146341464}
{"review":"Probably the only survival game where you can grow a beard. 10/10","hours":8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7803410230692076}
{"review":"So much better than real camping.","hours":162.5,"funny_percent":1.2842105263157895,"helpful_percent":0.8105263157894737}
{"review":"10/10 Starving is literally the least of your problems.","hours":22.3,"funny_percent":0.3089700996677741,"helpful_percent":0.7940199335548173}
{"review":"Forget Minecraft.","hours":231.8,"funny_percent":0.8141809290953546,"helpful_percent":0.7677261613691931}
{"review":"I got killed by a frog. 11/10","hours":5.4,"funny_percent":0.002828854314002829,"helpful_percent":0.743988684582744}
{"review":"I'm a little late to the awesomeness but suffice to say this game is just that. Better than basically any AAA $60 game... rewards skill and patience and has untold depth and stuff to discover and master.   Don't let your gaming chops go to waste and dare to starve, it's horrifyingly funtastic!","hours":9.3,"funny_percent":0.15,"helpful_percent":0.89375}
{"review":"It’s a pity that Tim Burton hasn’t been involved in video games: both his visual style and his storytelling abilities would be welcome additions to our industry. Thankfully, niche approaches to style can find a welcome home in today’s indie market, and the folks down at Klei entertainment have turned that particular style onto the video game scene in their new 2-D open world survival title Don’t Starve. It’s a refreshing and unique entry into the genre, one that puts extra emphasis on the ‘surviving’, and that’s sure to give players a welcome challenge.  The goal in Don’t Starve is simple and straightforward (hint: read the title). The player takes control of a forlorn, classically British-looking protagonist, and although there is only one default starter character, other playable characters with potentially useful abilities unlock as the game progresses. When you start in the world, you’ve got only your bare hands to work with. There’s no tree-punching, thank goodness, but you’ll need to start off by hunting down some flint and sticks so you can fashion yourself an axe. Your first priorities are simply to acquire fire (which you must have to survive a night) and food (which, as it turns out, delays starvation). As luck would have it, it’s not enough to simply peg down a steady source of calories; if you’re not careful, you can also be killed in the conventional manner, in other words, by being ravenously eaten, poisoned, or pecked to death by some of Mother Nature’s wonders. There are also some native inhabitants, better armed and armored than you, who are probably best avoided. As if that weren’t enough, there’s one more danger that feels just a tad artificial: your character starts to go insane without having new things to think about (aka, crafting new items or gathering pleasant items). This provides an impetus to keep you gathering harder-to-find materials, and although this seems like a bit of a poor man’s way of encouraging you to explore and ‘techify’, the crafting is fun enough that it stands on its own two feet. Generally you’ll be quite happy to spend time gathering special items just because you want to, say, build yourself a suit of armor, or a new kind of animal trap. There are even cute hats to make that have the added bonus of keeping your sanity up.  If all of this sounds like an open-world creativity journey, think again. Don’t Starve does give you several nice options for survival. For example, your food sources can come from scavenging, farming, hunting, or even cultivating your own bees. However, in the harsh climates that you’ll be fighting through, your options are usually so limited that you’ll need to focus all your efforts on whatever strategy is most likely to let you live another day. It’s not a game of fun and frolicking: you’ve got to fix your problems now, before they grow to big and doom you by your own stupidity.  That’s all well and good for the basic ‘survive-and-thrive’ aspect of Don’t Starve, but there’s also a form of campaign in the guise of the Adventure Mode. Here, the player is placed into specially created worlds with particularly difficult settings: it might be extra cold, or extra dark, or the food might be extra hard to come by. Surviving in each world long enough to collect pieces of a McGuffin allow the player to progress to the next challenge, slowly uncovering a thin story as the adventure continues. It’s not a strong enough narrative to be an independent draw for most players, but gives a nice added challenge to the standard gameplay.  From its title to its music, Don’t Starve does an excellent job of perfectly nailing a unique tone: it’s always a little dark, a little humorous, and a little self-conscious. The soundtrack is mostly made to mimic small-ensemble Victorian era motifs, the sort of thing that you would expect to hear in a haunted mansion movie. That said, it feels like there’s not enough of this high quality music to go around. The light-hearted morbidity of the game is even reflected in what characters you can play with: it’d be so easy to simply make the player a terribly frightened little girl or boy, crying for his or her mommy. Instead, the characters in the game gleefully watch trees burn and take pleasure in slaughtering whatever cute furry animals they can find. It’s a kill-or-be-killed world, and your character loves every minute of it. But the best part about the game is that the environment itself practically has a character. Nature isn’t just a harsh environment: it’s out to get you. Chop up too many trees, or wring the necks of too many fluffy bunnies, and you might find yourself facing some particularly vengeful avatars of the outdoors.  The worldbuilding in Don’t Starve is a special treat, and is quite possibly the most enjoyable aspect of the game. The scenery and enemies are given a dark, edgy sketch style that looks a bit like a flannelgraph or felt puppet show. Birds and critters all have their distinctive hoots and whistles, and even the trees quiver when they grow new leaves (which, appropriately, happens in a sudden ‘pop’). Genre-wise, Don’t Starve sits nicely in that sweet spot of gothic aesthetics, partway between simple turn-of-the-century technology and homespun magic.  Comparisons between Don’t Starve and Minecraft are inevitable, but unfair. Don’t Starve isn’t nearly as open-ended: it’s more focused on the challenge of survival, and there’s very little call for customization at all in the game. All recipes are technically given to you in advance, although you may need to traverse a tech tree in order to gain access to them. The crafting in Don’t Starve is also more focused on utility - generally speaking you’ll be so busy trying desperately to build the weapons or shelter that you require, you won’t ever find yourself making something just for the fun of it. Instead of offering limitless exploration, Don’t Starve offers a particular feeling; that of being in a creepy, kooky horror story.  With only a few biomes and enemy types currently implemented, the game as it is only carries a decent amount of material, and replay value is sadly limited. The sticking point here is that, like Minecraft, Don’t Starve promises continual updates (and cleverly posts the date of the next game addition on its main menu). This makes the purchase of Don’t Starve something of a gamble: maybe it will fill up to the brim with new content, maybe it won’t, and only time will tell.  More so than in other genres of games, world building in survival games is important, because the world is your enemy. Just like every good heroic RPG needs a delicious villain to focus your conflict against, a good survival game needs to give the environment itself a personality. While most outdoor survival games do this by making the environment be something like an inviting, friendly host, Don’t Starve goes in the opposite direction by making the Mother Nature seem more like that weird cat lady who lives in the boarded-up house. It’s not so much an invitation to explore and enjoy yourself as it is a long list of dangers to avoid. Don’t pick fights with the locals. Don’t stay in one place for too long. Don’t ignore that growl you hear in the night. Oh, and just in case you forget... try not to starve.  Highly Recommended ","hours":15.3,"funny_percent":0.06315789473684211,"helpful_percent":0.8631578947368421}
{"review":"Best. Game. Ever. I seriously cannot express how awesome this game is. Whether it be the overall gameplay, the lore, the deaths, the nomming, the insanity, or having your base burnt down because of one lightning strike in Spring, the game delivers on all of what it promises and more. Buy this game and you will not be disappointed.","hours":1178.2,"funny_percent":0.15306122448979592,"helpful_percent":0.9387755102040817}
{"review":"This game is so addictive, while trying not to starve on the game you may starve in real life, you won't sleep and you will go insane keeping your charactor alive.  This should come with a health warning but the games name should be a reminder in itself, maybe add an ingame timer that saves the game and tells the player 'eat and go to bed' after they've been playing 20 hours.  If you have lots of spare time this game is definitly worth it's money.","hours":1280.8,"funny_percent":0.25225225225225223,"helpful_percent":0.9099099099099099}
{"review":"walked too far. died got in a fight with a pig. died didn't eat enough. died ate some flower petals. went insane. died. worth it.","hours":6.3,"funny_percent":0.006430868167202572,"helpful_percent":0.7813504823151125}
{"review":"Müthiş bir oyun. 2 kere alkışladım..","hours":144.3,"funny_percent":0.1016949152542373,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"What is Don't Starve all about?  Don't Starve is a survival horror game that drops the character in an open and fully explorable world filled with numerous monsters and many interactive objects. This is a must buy for anyone who enjoys a game where the player is given total freedom to do what they want, how they want and when they want. So as a player and big fan here is my own personal experience on such an awesome single player experience game.   J20Hawkz Personal Opinion  I have been playing this game since early release and still find it extremely hard to stop playing it. Personally for me I enjoy adventure, action and rpg, Don't Starve combines all three in a unique way and blends in survival horror and a sort of farming, resource hoarding element also. If you enjoyed playing games such as Animal Crossing and Harvest Moon you will definitely feel right at home playing this. The added twist is you are always on your feet to make sure you don't go insane and lose health. Oh and of course don't starve.   Seasons, Days, Interactions  Almost everything can be interacted with, from catching small butterflies and bees to having epic battles with huge lumbering monsters that hunt you in the coldest and hardest of times. Yes Don't Starve has seasonal changes, and not only do you live to survive, you must survive to live. Days go from light to dark, they don't last very long making it all important you do enough to survive the dark night and start again when the sun comes out. Anything that moves and would potentially pose a threat can harm the player if you choose to get too close or in some way anger it.   Weapons, Traps, Armour, Food  Craft weapons, armour, traps and walls to defend yourself against continuous threat. Capture, kill, gather and cook food to make sure your hunger never drops. Everything you see can be used to collect valuable resources that will be used to craft hundreds of helpful survival items.   Explore a living world  Not only are we free to explore a fairly large open map, we can also go deeper into the caves and explore a strange and creepy ancient world. With the addition of such levels Don't Starve replay ability went through the window. Again exploring either the world above ground or venturing deep into the darkness of the caves, is all up to the player. There are no strings attached. You do as you wish.   Minor Issues  There are some minor faults with the game, but the team behind this game are very supportive and at least one member is on hand to help sort out any technical issues or those annoying bugs we encounter while playing. Never have I seen a more committed development team than Klei. Most questions can be answered by reading the community made Don't Starve Wiki, you can also visit the Official Klei site and post questions or reply to other friendly members of the Don't Starve community. The Steam Don't Starve forum is also a good place to share or ask what's on your mind.   Death  Death can be a pain, if you die that's it, you have to start all over again. The further you get is based on the number of days survived. However you gain experience points based on this number that is used to unlock other playable characters all of which have unique aspects about them. There are ways of avoiding a permanent game ending death so not all hope is lost.   Play alone or together  Don't Starve was originally planned as a Single player game only. On the 6th of May 2014 multiplayer was announced for late summer 2014. More to follow.   Finally  All in all, this game is a great single player oriented experience. The achievements we get is what we find hard and over come. With no online capabilities or steam associated achievements, some may find this game not worth buying. However if those are the only negatives in a game you will be hard pressed to find something that is as captivating as Don't Starve.   I give this game a solid 85/100.  Here is just one example of what can be made in Don't Starve.    Don't Starve  A Screenshot of Don't Starve By: J20Hawkz ","hours":139.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8623188405797102}
{"review":"> Started game. Chased by wolves into the darkness. I died.  > New game. Got hungry, tried to steal Tallbird egg. Tallbird didn't like that. I died.  > New game. Getting the hang of things. Tried to pick a harmless eyeball-shaped plant. Plant wasn't harmless. I died.  > New game. Found Touchstone, learned to abuse savestate mechanics. Dying becomes nearly impossible.  > Winter came. I died.  Don't Starve is a creepy-cute survival game in which you're made to learn through mistakes, and in which the slightest mistake can kill you and erase all your progress. I'm currently 74 days into a run, but not without a little abuse of the game mechanics. Don't Stave is a hard rogue-like, in that the instant you die your entire world and all your progress is erased, but there are a couple resurrection items in each world that let you respawn once after death, and I've found that there's a few seconds between dying and resurrection in which you can safely quit the game without it saving over your file. Basically, it's the old Pokemon trick: if you accidentally kill the legendary, just reboot your save file and everything's fine.  Is this cheating? Probably. Kind of. Not as much as the time I played through this game's entire adventure mode with God Mode turned on because I so badly wanted the character you unlock at the end. (I know, I'm THAT kind of player. In my defense, the adventure mode of this game is just absurd.)  I've put more hours into this game than into all my other games combined, and I think that fact alone should show how fun it is. It's a sandbox game, in that there are no set objectives, but there are so many things to do in the game that forming your own objectives is easy and natural; it's pretty obvious when you run across something you haven't accomplished yet (surviving through winter; unlocking the Magic tab; collecting the parts to the Teleportato), and in order to accomplish it, you usually have to master some new aspect of the game. In my current save file, I have: survived two winters; walked around the entire overworld map; hunted down MacTusk; survived (and slain) the mighty Deerclops; and built a base with six farms, two bee boxes, and a nearby spider den, which I'm pretty sure could sustain me indefinitely without me having to move beyond my line of berry bushes. All this and I've still only scratched the surface. (Literally; there's a whole cave world below the surface world, and a ruin world below that, which I've only read about so far.)  The only downside to this game is the roguelike element, in that every time you die you have to start over. But the randomly-generated world makes starting over kind of fun, especially with the option to try new characters, and once you have the basic survival tools there's a million directions you can go in, most of which you won't have touched in previous playthroughs.   I will say, however, that the dying does get annoying, especially when so many of your deaths feel like ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥t. Like those eyeball plants that attacked and killed me before I could figure out what they were. Or the wolves, which will NEVER stop chasing you, or even give you time to craft something to defend yourself. Or all those times a monster attacked my campsite at night, forcing me to run in circles around my fire as the light slowly burned out. Basically, if at any moment you aren't prepared for everything, it probably means you're about to die. The only reason I can ignore this is that I would quickly quit my game whenever I was about to die, but without cheats, the permadeath mechanic makes progress in this game infuriatingly difficult (but incredibly rewarding when it does happen).  I'd give it an 8/10. (10/10 if savestate abuse is counted as a game mechanic.)","hours":52.5,"funny_percent":0.06666666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.9866666666666667}
{"review":">Join server >See huge base >Two players run at me with spears >>>Friendly, I say<<< >Instantly get impaled  >Am Ghost >Float around  > See mushroom next to their base >Decide to haunt >Start a fire >Oshit.jpg >IT catches on fire >Tree catches on fire >Base catches on fire >Players catch on fire >Players die from fire consuming their evil souls  >I am dead >Players are dead >Base is dead  ?//noone alive on server  1337/69 would sp00k again","hours":50.2,"funny_percent":2.3653061224489798,"helpful_percent":0.7510204081632653}
{"review":"You survived for a long time--hundreds, thousands of days? Your base looked so friggin' nice you took crap load of screenshots of it? You had all the cool machines and devices you even knew when it's going to rain? You had plenty of food sources, enough to never leave your base?  Prepare for a stupid, absurdly humiliating death you never saw it coming.  0/10 would fight frogs again.  P.S.   ","hours":69.9,"funny_percent":1.6388888888888888,"helpful_percent":0.8222222222222222}
{"review":"I starved.                                                                                                                                      10/10.","hours":16.9,"funny_percent":0.00813953488372093,"helpful_percent":0.7244186046511628}
{"review":"Day 1: What are all of these buttons for? Day 2: Attacked a bee hive and barely made it out. Day 3: Man, this is simple. Day 5: Man, this is complicated. Day 7: NEED.....FOOOD..... Day 8: Think I'm starting to lose my mind. Why is everything so dark? Day 9: *Ate a raw mushroom - died from insanity*  This was all on a live stream. 10/10 would starve again. ","hours":16.8,"funny_percent":1.6044776119402986,"helpful_percent":0.7649253731343284}
{"review":"Another amazing indie title. The creativity level in this game is outstanding. There is so much depth in a seemingly simple concept and it's implemented perfectly. The graphics intrigue me to no end. At such a low price, you would be a fool not to buy this game.","hours":98.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8416666666666667}
{"review":"Aside from ridiculously fun gameplay, Don't Starve's art style is eye-candy, reminiscing the feel of a Tim Burton movie adapted into a video game.  Don't Starve doesn't hold your hand at the start. You pretty much figure out what to do by yourself.  Oh look, that looks edible. And just like that, you could be dead.  It's a trial and error game with a flair of adventure. You could stumble upon something very interesting or dangerous. You may have met your potential pigman allies. Tread carefully as the world of Don't Starve is perilous and unfriendly. Most importantly, don't starve!","hours":3.9,"funny_percent":0.01282051282051282,"helpful_percent":0.9230769230769231}
{"review":"You either die of starvation or live long enough to be murdered by pengulls. 10/10","hours":69,"funny_percent":0.06666666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.7625}
{"review":"If you want to rage so much that you actually start hating life, buy this game.","hours":55.9,"funny_percent":0.0021598272138228943,"helpful_percent":0.7019438444924406}
{"review":"Pros: + Randomly generated worlds with varying resources and NPC's + The option to create custom worlds + Tons of items to harvest, craft, use and eat + Immense world to explore + Original and fitting art style + Great sound design and music + Immense replayability and depth + Supports mods; has many great mods available through Steam Workshop + Frequent content updates + Gain experience after each death to unlock additional characters to play as; each character has their own passive abilities that changes the way you play  Cons: - Large learning curve with no in-game help or tutorials - Combat is frustrating and basic - The game is designed around grinding, and you'll never do anything but.  Who should buy this game? *Fans of sandbox survival games such as Minecraft *Fans of Klei Entertainment *Those who enjoy slower-paced games centered around creativity and patience   Replayability Value: Very high, tons of stuff to do and with randomly generated new content each playthrough you'll have a different experience with each world.  Price Range: $15 bucks or lower, you can easily get your money's worth.","hours":16.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.896551724137931}
{"review":"The only game where shadows can kill you The only game where going insane can kill you The only game at launch where having a beard is mythical  The only game where a flower hat makes you feel better about yourself The only game where you need a complex metal machine just to make a fence The only game where it is 2d and drawn but yet is somehow also 3d, while the sprites are all still drawn The only game where an eyeball grows two dark hairy legs and a beak that pecks you to death The only game where the main villian is an unlockable character who is just as weak as everyone else The only game where it is alike to minecraft but at the same time not alike to minecraft The only game that doesn't disable achievments for using workshop mods The only game that I came up with a review this long for that just has a bunch of phrases saying the only game over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over.... etc The only game that is constantly up to date and par with its console versions... (other than state of decay and free to play games) The only game where there is a mod to play as markiplier The only game that could have millions to trillions of memes for it, yet it doesn't have any  JUST BUY THIS GAME! 10/10","hours":6,"funny_percent":1.2773722627737227,"helpful_percent":0.8102189781021898}
{"review":"For me, it was the small things :  The blue tint of winter.   The silent whisper of your demons, as you slowly go insane.  The witty analysis of each character on their environment, showing how unique they are.  The breathing you hear in your left ear, but cant see beyond the piercing dark.  Dont Starve is a great game, with devs that listen to their players. Open mod support encourage the community to build the game they want to play. The addition of Dont Starve Together adds an almost primal need. Survive with your pack, feed them and fight with them - Survive.   A hidden gem, a beautiful game.","hours":48.8,"funny_percent":0.10204081632653061,"helpful_percent":0.9795918367346939}
{"review":"Charmingly addictive // Recommended for survival gamers who don't want their hands held  + The longer one lives, the more XP is accumulated; characters are unlocked via XP, so unlocks can be obtained by those struggling to acclimate to the game, albeit not as quickly + Boasts myriad environments and biomes, all of them offering a unique pallet of items and consumables + Camera rotation is a godsend, and makes camp construction much less frustrating + Permadeath offers a rousing incentive to succeed, particularly due to nighttime being so fatal + Absolutely fantastic art style and animations + Has an intricate, yet fairly intuitive, crafting system; this is greatly complemented by the mechanics of magic and scientific advancement + Controls are practical and responsive; works very well with mouse and keyboard + In addition to the hunger and health meters, the player must also consider the needs of the 'sanity' meter, adding further to the logistical challenge; sanity requirements can be satiated differently between the unlockable characters + Worlds are all procedurally generated, making each experience into something refreshing and unique + Sound design is nothing less than superb  - Game can often lend itself to tedious frustrations, in large part due to the unforgiving environment and the fragile nature of the player's character - Crippling lack of a tutorial or beginner's handicaps; this will not appear as a negative to most enthusiasts of the genre, but less experienced survival gamers may find it off-putting  LockeProposal's Big Day Out  Community Group Curator Page Serious Steam Reviews subReddit","hours":13.9,"funny_percent":0.06976744186046512,"helpful_percent":0.8837209302325582}
{"review":"Outstanding survival game!","hours":74.7,"funny_percent":0.028985507246376812,"helpful_percent":0.8840579710144928}
{"review":"A tree came to life and burned down the forest.  300/10","hours":23.4,"funny_percent":0.005221932114882507,"helpful_percent":0.6762402088772846}
{"review":"Whats that? You tried to go exploring? DEAD Hmm? Tried to murder a frog? DEAD Forgot to make armour? DEAD Didn't make a torch? DEAD Tried to fight pigmen? DEAD Too cold? DEAD doing anything but cowering in a corner eating beef jerky in this game will kill you. somehow, that makes it fun.","hours":14.3,"funny_percent":2.235294117647059,"helpful_percent":0.8431372549019608}
{"review":"i was trying so hard not to starve i forgot to eat in real life  10/10 would go to hospital again","hours":0.4,"funny_percent":0.4596774193548387,"helpful_percent":0.7137096774193549}
{"review":"Don't Starve, A game where poop is more importaint than gems. 10/10","hours":39.2,"funny_percent":2.3661971830985915,"helpful_percent":0.8450704225352113}

{"review":"I should have written a review long ago. After all, I've played this game for 1,000+ hours and idle'd in its level editor for a few hundred more.  Dustforce DX is the deepest and most technically demanding 2D platformer ever made. It has a momentum based engine where all actions have real weight and consequence, attacks have start-up frames, things are jump and dash-cancellable, and there are tricks measured in how many frames they save. Every level has leaderboards both for score and for raw time, and the community is fiercly competitive and still very active. More importantly, every run on the leaderboards also has a replay embedded. Being able to watch your run (or anyone else's) is not just fun, it's a fantastic learning tool. If that sounds like something you'd enjoy, then keep reading.  Dustforce DX will never hold the player's hand. Several people ragequit the third TUTORIAL, and a wide number of the advanced mechanics and workings of the game are never explained in-game. To really master this game and understand everything in it, you need to know other people who play it and/or engage on the subreddit and IRC channel. Even if you do that and arm yourself with knowledge: this game is HARD. When you think you've finally gotten good and beaten the game, you have only just begun because you unlocked \"The Difficults\". Honestly even getting that far is going to take you a hundred hours at least, because the only way to unlock new levels is to complete easier levels perfectly. I'll explain...  Dustforce DX has 4 main hub areas of one large world (The Nexus). Each hub has 4 baby levels, 4 easy levels, 4 medium levels, and 4 exceedingly hard levels. Each tier of level above the first is locked by a key, and you earn progress toward keys by playing the levels in the tier below. But the only way to get a full key from 1 single level is to get an SS rank. One S is completion: for cleaning all the dust and defeating all the enemies. The other S is Finesse: for never losing your combo from dying, getting hit, or letting it time out. The game doesn't just reward perfection, it demands it if you even want to see all the stock levels.  Now why did I say stock levels you may ask? That's because the true magic of this game is its INTENSELY POWERFUL level editor. Custom Dustforce Maps (it calls them maps instead of levels) are what keep me playing. This is one of several games where the editor gives you every tool the dev had, letting you make stuff on par with, and often exceeding, the quality of the stock game. You have 20 layers to work with, tons of cool props, almost complete RGB color control and control over the %blend of the color PER LAYER, a♥♥♥♥♥♥ton of props and emitters to place, several things with transparency for awesome effects, and total control over the music and sound effects at every point. The last sentence is very important since this game has a truly amazing soundtrack. Free control over the music in the editor doubles as a sound test, even if you don't enjoy making maps. The nice thing about the leaderboards and replays is that you can watch everyone playing your map once you publish it. That adds another level of enjoyment to the process, a feature missing from several other games with level editors.  There are almost no restrictions on what you can place anywhere, allowing the free mixing of themes from the 4 hubs if you have the skill to make it work. The game is easily moddable and the community has several killer spritemods available, one even turns a character into Kirby! There are several different classes of mods both for art and for performance, and they are all easy enough to find on the subreddit. Sadly they aren't integrated into Steam like with many other games. The community also has several third party tools available for more detailed stat-tracking, new kinds of competition, and even a cool TAS community.  In conclusion, Dustforce DX is a great game and one of my all time favorites. It's not easy to get into: indeed you will struggle if you go it alone and it's still very difficult even with friends beside you. You'll get what you put into it. We still learn things about this game every week; the engine is just that deep. A lot of the quirks in this game are things you just won't find anywhere else. When I say that there's no 2D platformer with the complexity of Dustforce... I mean it.","hours":1560.1,"funny_percent":0.07035175879396985,"helpful_percent":0.9547738693467337}
{"review":"This is my favorite game on Steam","hours":4341.3,"funny_percent":0.029288702928870293,"helpful_percent":0.8242677824267782}
{"review":"How it ends (spoiler) ","hours":60.1,"funny_percent":0.6683417085427136,"helpful_percent":0.7336683417085427}
{"review":"SO TAKE A FEW MINUTES OUT OF YOUR PATHETIC LIFE AND PICTURE THIS FOR A SECOND  YOU'RE A JANITOR NOT SOME SMELLY MINIMUM WAGE JANITOR, NO  YOU'RE A NINJA JANITOR YOU RUN AROUND AT SPEEDS INCOMPREHENSIBLE TO MANKIND, RUN UP AND JUMP OFF OF WALLS, RUN ACROSS CEILINGS, AND JUMP WHILE IN THE AIR ALL WHILE BEING A GOOD CITIZEN AND CLEANING UP THE POLLUTION AMERICA DOESN'T GIVE A FLAMING BADGER'S BUNGHOLE ABOUT  YOU WANT ACTION? THIS GAME'S GOT ACTION AS IF BEING A FLIPPIN' NINJA WASN'T ENOUGH FOR YOU, YOU CAN ALSO BEAT THE HELL OUT OF DIRTY NEVER-DO-WELLS WHICH [SPOILER ALERT] TURN OUT TO BE FRIENDLY CITIZENS WHO WERE CORRUPTED BY THE POLLUTION OF AMERICA  THERE'S FIVE DIFFERENT AREAS AND TWO WAYS TO BE THE BEST AT THEM YOU CAN EITHER BE JESUS INCARNATE AND CLEAN UP EVERYTHING WITHOUT GETTING HIT OR YOU CAN GO FASTER THAN SONIC THE HEDGEHOG AND BEAT THE LEVEL AS FAST AS POSSIBLE I DON'T THINK YOU'RE MAN ENOUGH TO DO IT  WARM UP YOUR BADASS GAUGE IN THE FOREST BY CLEANING UP DEAD FOLIAGE START REACHING SPEEDS OF \"HOLY JESUS\" IN THE CITY BY LITERALLY TAKING OUT THE TRASH HIT YOUR STRIDE IN THE MANSION WHERE THE FAT RICH FARTKNOCKERS CAN'T BE BOTHERED TO CLEAN UP OR SAVE THEIR SMOKIN' HOT MAIDS [WHO ARE ALSO CORRUPTED BY THE EVIL POLLUTION] BECOME A NINJA JANITOR SCIENTIST IN THE LABORATORY WHERE ALL THE POT-HEADS SPILLED TOXIC WASTE EVERYWHERE AND THEN IF YOU'RE A BAD ENOUGH DUDE, ENTER THE VIRTUAL REALITY ROOM AND CRY OUT YOUR PUSS BECAUSE THOSE LEVELS ARE BRUTAL  BUT WAIT YOU THOUGHT THERE WAS ONLY ONE CHARACTER? HAHAHAHA OH WOW THERE'S A GRAND TOTAL OF FOUR JANITOR NINJAS WHO ARE READY TO ANSWER THE CALL TO CLEANING CLEANING UP CRIME DUSTMAN, THE BLUE EVERYMAN WHO THE GAME IS MADE AROUND. LIKES BEING A BADASS AND LONG WALKS ON THE BEACH DUSTGIRL, THE RED FEMALE CHARACTER WHO IS BASICALLY DUSTMAN BUT FALLS FASTER AND HAS DIFFERENT ATTACK RANGES. ALSO WANTS DUSTMAN'S D BUT HONESTLY WHO DOESN'T DUSTKID, THE PURPLE WONDER CHILD WHO ATTACKS FASTER THAN A DRAGONBALL Z FIGHT AND CAN JUMP THREE TIMES. ONLY DOWNSIDE IS HER JUMPS ARE SHORTER THAN YOUR PINKY FINGER AND HER ATTACK RANGE IS MELEE ONLY. SHE'S ACTUALLY FROM THE FUTURE WHERE DUSTMAN AND DUSTGIRL BANG EACH OTHER DUSTWORTH, THE BADASS GRANDPA WHO USES A VACUUM AND DOESN'T GIVE A DAMN ABOUT IT. JUMPS HIGHER THAN ANYONE ELSE AND HAS THE BIGGEST ATTACK RANGE BECAUSE OF HIS RAD VAC. SUCKS THAT HE ATTACKS SLOWER THAN A TURTLE IN MOLASSES. HE MAY BE OLD BUT HE HAS TO BE BADASS IF HE'S PART OF AN ELITE TEAM OF NINJA JANITORS  IS YOUR CROTCH THROBBING WITH ANTICIPATION YET? BECAUSE MINE IS","hours":31.6,"funny_percent":0.24203821656050956,"helpful_percent":0.8343949044585988}
{"review":"This game does not have a skill ceiling. 90 hours in and I've just started learning how to play.","hours":524.1,"funny_percent":0.06349206349206349,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"dusty.","hours":1670.4,"funny_percent":0.16417910447761194,"helpful_percent":0.8507462686567164}
{"review":"Easily one of the best games I have ever played. You really don't know what your limit is when you play this game because you improve so much at first and continue to master this game even after you think you've beaten it.","hours":431.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9130434782608695}
{"review":"Awesome precision platformer. Tight mechanics, deep move set, smooth flow, great music & visuals, clever level design, custom level editor, leaderboards, perfect for speedrunning. It's safe and accessible for all ages, yet it's depth, difficulty, and mechanics make Dustforce worth buying over Super Meat Boy and other precision platforming \"greats\". After 500+ hours this game is still fresh and fun, and I have barely touched the 2000+ user made levels. With this kind of depth and replayability, Dustforce is easily worth the asking price! TL,DR: Janitorial Simulator 2014","hours":548.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9577464788732394}
{"review":"A challenging precision platformer with tight controls and a focus on going fast. It's difficult to overcome the original hurdle of learning the game, but has easy and fun levels to teach you the ropes before hitting the more difficult stuff.  I lost myself about 500 hours ago and I don't see myself resurfacing any time soon. ._.","hours":1970.8,"funny_percent":0.2459016393442623,"helpful_percent":0.9180327868852459}
{"review":"A game that I would be hard-pressed to top if needing to name a game that exemplifies the creed \"easy to learn, difficult to master\". That being said, this game is awesome, period. The design is tight, both in terms of aesthetic and mechanics. When you look at the top runs in a given level, you will find your jaw dropping over and over. It feels like the inputs are done so precisely that only a machine or someone who knows the game beat-for-beat would be able to execute with such precision. And truly, precision is likely the name of the game. You'll come for the challenge and stay, again, for the challenge of trying to perfect your runs. I doubt that anyone coming in fresh to the game will be able to top and particular chart (or even top 10 for that matter) without many dozens, possibly hundreds, of hours invested into it. To this day I'm not sure what control scheme is better suited to this game: a controller (where all relevant buttons are a glide away) or with a keyboard (where all the actions are laid out in a row). A friend of mine, who is far better at this game than I am, swears by the keyboard, and it does sometimes feel like the superior control scheme.  An honorable mention should go out to Lifeformed for a fantastic, near flawless OST. I love it. It is likely in my top 5, in fact. If nothing else, play this game for the music and ambiance alone (or better yet, go buy and support the artist).  Numeric score of 10/10 (10/10 does not mean flawless or perfect, but a truly excellent game that I would recommend to someone, if I had to give them only one game to play on Steam).  A solid game through and through, with the DX update only improving on an already excellent foundation. It may not be for everyone, but if you can do the tutorial and say \"yeah...I get this\", then your time and effort will be rewarded.","hours":11.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Dustforce takes platformers tested by time, such as Megaman and refines the genre to it's maximal potential. Everything is spot on, you are in full control, precise and absolutely magnificent. It takes a while to get used to the gravity, controls and all these essential elements in the game, but even after you got the hang of the basics, there are many more things to master. From combat to advanced techniques, there is always room for improvement.  Dustforce was made for speedrunning, you can clearly see it with the leaderboard and replays of playthroughs of every player's best runs. You can see the best players what exactly they did at every level and learn the routes and have the wonderful experience of speedrunning, where you play the same level for half an hour to get that 0.07 second advantage.","hours":148.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8913043478260869}
{"review":"Dustforce is a lovely game for those that enjoy speedy platformers with an emphasis on control over one's character. The janitors in Dustforce can jump off walls, run up walls, run up ceilings, and perform multiple double jumps by defeating enemies. Gameplay consists of mastering the route through a level to sweep up all the dust while continuing one's combo (which can be done by running over dust or hitting enemies) and avoiding spikes, pits, and enemy attacks. The game employs a ranking system that judges based on completion (how much dust was ran over and how many enemies were defeated) and finesse (how few hits and restarts taken). This game is perfect for those who go for perfect ranks in modern Sonic titles.  However, later levels in the game approach unfair difficulty, spamming spikes and requiring jumps and dashes to be timed down to the millisecond to succeed. Thankfully, it is not necessary to play any of these levels, and the game can be obtained at a price cheap enough to warrant playing only the well-designed levels in the first half of the game.","hours":10.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8666666666666667}
{"review":"No doubt the best platformer I ever played. The challenging leaderboards, the difficulty curve and the (very active) community making custom levels provide endless replayability.  The controls are amazing. Don't let anyone convince you otherwise. A lot of people seem to have problems with them, but maybe it is the momentum-based platforming that's putting them of. Once you get comfortable with the movements, dashing, and attacking enemies, there shouldn't be any problems in reproducing the same moves over and over again.  The soundtrack is great, the graphics are fine, and there aren't really any negatives I could mention. There isn't any reason why you shouldn't pick this up for such a low price.","hours":558.6,"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"A \"Precision Platformer\" that has an Incredible soundtrack and built in leaderboards, making for a game that can become very addictive.  It is easily the best Platformer I have ever played. I heartily recommend this game.","hours":217,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9}
{"review":"there’s a softness, an altogether pureness, in dustforce. it is a starkly wholesome game beyond its surface. the magnitude of how pure is even idealistic and immovable. it’s something that is hard to find in a video game that seeks new horizons. relations, though. the most amazing part about dustforce is the result of its softness. even if you lack the ability to play it - and nearly everyone does - it holds wide appeal. the art and music match the gameplay to a refined elegance. it’s a pacifist game and a performance game without being tailored to either, because it’s still clearly a platformer with all of the philosophy behind it. in motion, it’s wickedly cool and aesthetically moving. skill and display meet innocence and whimsy.  dustforce is ludicrously difficult. it belongs to an elite faction of games I’d describe as harder than hard. the way it’s presented, that fact lays dormant. though loss is common in dustforce, there is no mean-spirit. nothing is out for your blood and none of the platforming is dishonest. what you need to do is nearly always set clearly ahead and it’s all up to your fingers. consequently, and not in a bad meaning, the stages end up feeling more like race tracks than levels. mind you, very stylized race tracks, or race track stages, but very laid-out and bare compared to genre tradition. this feel is accented, arguably engineered, by dustforce’s mode of progression. it doesn’t matter if you only get to the end of a stage in dustforce. you will, it’s always fun to clear a stage, it just won’t let you fully continue.  dustforce’s inspiration and idiosyncrasy is speed running. platformers have always been a speed running favorite. converting art into performance and display, manifesting game and human potential. speed runs are incredible, but there’s an equally incredible entry barrier. the time expenditure needed to participate means that few will experience the overwhelming play. dustforce acts as a bridge. its ranking system enforces perfection. it does not simply weigh down your time a ranking. clear time is not relevant. to unlock levels, you need SS. to get SS, you need a perfect combo with full completion. dustforce’s ranking deals with links. dust you collect on the stage builds up links. hitting dust covered enemies continues links. they are lost when you are hit, go out of bounds, or have about a five second pause since your last link. there cannot be mistakes. speed runs contain no mistakes. though complete perfection is not required, dustforce is unforgiving to even the smallest mistake. finishing a long level from beginning to end, allowed only stylistic mistakes, puts dustforce above a precision platformer to a speed run simulator.  dustforce isn’t the first platformer to demand perfection. I personally love contra for its sheer display and skill or die gameplay. dustforce’s pacifist aura and dedication to a track indeed separate it from any other perfection platformer, but what is most important is dustforce’s fluidity and sense of speed. though in plain movement it is slower than a mario game, a speed run never stops and dustforce doesn’t want you to stop. borrowing two key elements from other very fluid series - mega man X’s dash and modern sonic’s magnetlike fast-fall - and adding their own radical innovations with air dashing, wall runs, and jump refreshes, dustforce has constant varied movement. the combinations and radical changes in input keep you more than engaged, with the coolness of each character’s movement drilling in your performance. the rhythm, intensity, and constant movement translate to feeling unstoppable speed. dustforce’s core is an incredible renovation of tried mechanics with unbelievable vision in its additions. it has its idyllic goal of speed running and it refused accepted conditions. it contributes altogether on its own making both its direction and its core individual and fantastic.  dustforce has a special presentation with a unique goal and altogether new gameplay, so I would be skeptic to ask: how are the levels? by my language, well, this is pretty easy to anticipate. dustforce’s levels are masterful. they allow for all kinds of different and often new naturalizations, realizations, and combinations of their gameplay. the tracks have clear and differing focuses, requiring techniques, hopefully building your repertoire while it remixes its challenges, playing on your expectations. there are huge clearings to cross, towers to climb, ceilings and floors to repel, narrow spiked corridors to squeeze through, enemies to chain your airtime, small platforms to caustically land on, expansive hills to slide through, beautiful spirals to loop around. dustforce isn’t just a very personal and unique idea, it’s a masterpiece of level design. I have qualms for the lack of linear pacing, there isn’t a way to know how difficult a level is going to be, but that’s a very small criticism, and the game still builds from easy stages to hard stages, it’s just done in blocks.  plain to say, combat is not dustforce’s strong suit, and it feels relatively forced. so it is with an absolute lack of understanding that there are four small and constrained levels dedicated to fighting masses of around twenty enemies. to compensate for keyboard controls, for better and worse, dustforce ques moves. when platforming, it gives the game a sort of rhythmic and planned feel based on anticipation and expectation. in the heat of combat, it is awkward. you’ll find yourself locked into quick strikes and unable to dodge obvious enemy attacks, which is frustrating and unrewarding.  another actually affecting flaw is how much singular input influences the character. slight adjustments are impossible. this again compensates for the difficulty to make smalls presses on a keyboard, however it removes from dustforce’s most important aspect: its fluidity. an obvious expression of this is a single block-wide hole with ground on either side of it. pressing right or left will walk over the hole and onto the terrain on the other side. there is no possible way to enter the hole from the ground, you must jump and make the adjustment. yet even if there is slightly more control in the air, it still involves much too large movements, and makes landing on small blocks or falling down in a specific direction imprecise and very much out of your own control, which is somewhat of a deathblow. the hideout is an infamous stage that brings this flaw to light but also serves as a great way to learn how to make the flaw work for you. the keyboard-tailored control is impossible to ignore, and while it is a noble effort, it sadly stains a perfect formula.  dustforce is performance art. the fluidity feels like a dance. the speed feels like superimposed mastery. unlike a rhythm game, there is pure and awesome actualized design depth existing in-addition to the performance. unlike a perfection platformer, dustforce is rarely stressful, instead being meditative, being conductive, being pointed, being beautiful. it doesn’t demand perfection, it encourages it. as dustforce opens up, grows and evolves, so do you as the player. it shows that difficulty can be symbiotic to achieve fully wholesome results. dustforce isn’t do or die. it’s be or don’t be.","hours":43.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9166666666666666}
{"review":"Dustforce is a beautiful, traversal style 2D platformer with a lot of parkour, wall running, ceiling hanging with some light combat. If you're the sort of person that likes exploration and collecting in platformers, Dustforce is right up your dirty alley. First is its beautiful art style that makes it stand out from a heap of other platformers. Then you have a great sense of movement control. You can double jump, dash, run up walls for a brief time, wall jump, cling to a ceiling and move along to it before you ultimately fall off. You can slide down slopes and Yaba-Daba-Do your way off inclines at the end to launch yourself.  The game introduces you to all these incredible mechanics via three tutorial levels. One for traversing, another for combat and the third for advanced techniques such as dash jumping into a double jump to run up a wall. I had to return to the advanced techniques 2 hours into the game to complete it. You are never forced to do anything in the game, but there is definitely a need to perfect these skills.  As a member of dust force, your goal is to clean the world of dirt by touching it. Its easy enough to just run across dirt, making it disappear, but the challenge becomes getting up walls, onto ceilings, and beating the dirt from enemies that gives harmless things a sinister new life. The object of each level is to dust trails of leaves, green glop and other forms of dirt all the way up to defeating a few enemies at the end. There's nothing to differentiate these enemies, one dead end full of enemies might not be the dead end full of enemies you're looking for.  Combat gets relegated to two buttons, a weak attack and strong attack. The strong is only good for larger enemies, because defeating a smaller enemy will only scatter the dirt covering them and you'll still need to clean it. Light attacking enemies in the air gives you an extra jump, so you can double jump, hit an enemy and then jump a third time. As you play, you're also building a meter. When it gets full your character will color trail and pressing both attacks will give an automatic beating to enemies and dirt on screen. Assuming your character will be able to reach them.  There are a few different types of enemies, big hopping heads, angry bears. There are more mundane hovering types either balls of leaves or gargoyles. Green balls of goo that will punch you back, hovering barrels dumping goo beneath them. Even a sort of porcupine that shoots quills or sharp leaves at you. The biggest threat is spikes that cover large areas in later parts of the game. Each spike death or pit in the Nexus or in a level will respawn you.  When going through a level, you don't have to sweep every bit of dust or leaves, but at the end you're graded on your completion and finesse. For everything you clean, enemy or trail of dirt, you build a combo. Finesse gets determined by how high of a combo you score in each level. Getting hit or taking too long to clean something new will break your combo and hurt your finesse grade. Each level is also connected to a global leader board. Getting a \"S\" rank in a level will give you one of three colored keys (copper, silver and gold) to unlock new levels.  The problem is you need to find every level in the game via a hub world called the Nexus. This hub world offers. a real sense of exploration and challenge even to get to these level doors. Some doors are clustered in easy to access areas, but others are for more skilled players. You'll need to slide down ramps and vault over pits, or double cling to ceilings to make it across a bed of spikes. There are even areas that you'll need to time jump, dash, jumps to make it through and then do it again. For every path you take in the Nexus, you'll need to make your way back. Its never as simple as doing the same thing a second time. You'll need to figure out a way to do it or take a different route and hope that it circles back. Other doors are completely hidden and you'll need to get into every nook and cranny to find secrets.  Its not like Metroid where you unlock a new ability, getting there relies completely on your skill. After the first two dozen levels, everything gets a lot more difficult. Its this difficulty that some may love, but it hindered my enjoyment of the game. This Nexus is big and it has to be to fit over 70 levels in it.  Each level starts by letting you select from one of four members of Dustforce. They're all color coated with different looks and ways to clean, but they all play the same. No one has any ability over one another. These characters definitely give the game character and charm. An old man wearing green carrying a vacuum, a brunette in purple with pom poms as dusters, a blue clad janitor with a humble broom and a female version with red overalls.  In fact style summarizes the game as a whole, from the beautiful world with rich backgrounds in a washed out color pallet to the movement and flow of your character. Even the soundtrack has a style that fits the art. Its tranquil synthetic ballads fit perfect into the background of the beautiful cityscape, caves and laboratories.  Outside of the Nexus is a different sort of hub. Its a place that lets you visit the tutorial levels, and even go through previous levels you've beaten. These tomes come in four different books, each for different themes of each level. There's the cityscape, the castle, laboratory and. I'd much prefer flipping through a book to find a level rather than exploring the Nexus, but whatever.  For anyone creative, there's a level editor that lets you make levels in game as rich and beautiful as you'll find in Dustforce. You can even go online to download levels from your web browser. It seems like an extra step that should just be in the game. These levels all have ratings, difficulties and keywords tagged with them so you can find whatever you have a mind for.  There's even local multiplayer survival and king of the hill for up to four local players. I didn't test this or anything so I can't review it until I get a party together on my wide screen to play Dustforce.  Now for the bad stuff, by default there is no controller support, but you can rebind the keys to support your controller. The only problem with that is you still need to hit the ESC key to bring up a menu. Having a menu bind would have been nice, but its hardly a big issue. I've managed to get myself stuck outside of the screen and the camera just wouldn't follow me. Are these enough to ruin a game, no certainly not.  While this is a beautiful game with a lot of fun mechanics, it just feels needlessly difficult to get to levels. Some may like the exploration to find a level or get to a door they see high up above, but it feels like extra padding. Even with all these mechanics the game still just didn't feel like fun. It felt like a chore to go into a level and touch every place with dirt, dust and leaves. Sure I didn't have to, but if I wanted a key I'd have to. In the later hours of my play through I spent more time just getting to the levels.","hours":4,"funny_percent":0.06382978723404255,"helpful_percent":0.8297872340425532}
{"review":"This game was built for perfectionists and speedrunners, and any platformer fan who isn't either of the two will become one after playing Dustforce. The soundtrack is INCREDIBLE and the visuals are great - it's got a shockingly soothing atmosphere for such a hard game.","hours":240.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9565217391304348}
{"review":"I can recommend this game only if you are into platformers fetish, like another run for 0.10s better score, otherwise it is better when you will spent some time making yourself a perfect breakfast which will affect your whole day better than an hour torturing yourself when you arent into this kind of gaming. Dustforce is a very good title as a platformer but, well, not for me.","hours":23.2,"funny_percent":0.11428571428571428,"helpful_percent":0.8}
{"review":"Dustforce is a great game, the only criticism you can give it is that its too hard, and in my mind thats not an issue, as i felt rewarded by getting better and better till i could continue, that said. if you arent the kind of person who enjoys being kicked in the♥♥♥♥♥for a bit until you improve i suggest you avoid dustforce.","hours":53.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8947368421052632}
{"review":"\"I can't beat it, therefore it's a bad game.\" Just... No. This isn't Surgeon Simulator, or Probably Archery, or QWOP.  Dustforce is underrated and unfairly downrated. Whether you're good/not good at it, the game is great. \"Tight and responsive controls\" commonly boil down to \"easy and requiring little brain power\" and lead to less technical capability for a player to utilize. It's one loathesome reason why people say gamers barely use their brains. Blaming the non-status quo movement and momentum physics to justify giving a negative review is a poor, lazy, subjective decision that doesn't do Dustforce justice, especially when many others can actually do it. Refer to Super Metroid for a minute. It's an iconic example of completely breaking the norm for platformers. It fused with action, exploration adventure, and has controls and physics that shatter your experiences if you've only jumped like a Mario or a Mega Man.  Like a fighting game, Dustforce's controls will require some learning and does not give you \"Yeah, I get it\" filler moments. The skill ceiling is much higher. The tricks are much more complex. Good fighting game players know more than to just spam 2 moves. Good platformer players can do more than just run + (double/wall) jump. Also see TotalBiscuit's video review on his YouTube channel for a good, objective take at the game. It's for an old version but the things covered in the video still hold up. One more important thing to note is that this game was not made in Game Maker. Only the prototype was. The finished product uses its own workings built from scratch. Don't be like those fools who don't read/research and bash the game on an incorrect fact.  Dustforce is a difficult game. That doesn't take all the fun away... There will be those incorrect people who think that being bad at a game alone means the game sucks. \"This game sucks\" is not the correct way to say \"I suck at this game\", or \"In reality, I'm too lazy to learn\". The controls, which can be rebound, do have a learning curve that the player is supposed to grow into and be accustomed with. This should not be a problem if you have played fighting games with a competitive/more technical mindset. If not, don't worry. Every player of this game was bad at some point. Just play through the 3 tutorial levels without worrying about getting S/S rank in the beginning. Granted, they're all harder than the first normal levels you will get so don't worry how badly you do, but they're there to show you how the game works of course. Trying to be immediately perfect at something new is an unrealistic and unhealthy mentality. Break things down into smaller pieces at a time. Their varied environments are good to experiment & practice in. You don't have to be the top 10%, or even top 30%, of the leaderboards to really enjoy what Dustforce has to offer.  A while back, this game caught some flak with being compared to another fun, difficult game: Super Meat Boy. I have seen a couple speedruns for both games, including developer commentary during 1 of each run, I've seen \"Indie Game: The Movie\" with its developer coverage of SMB, and have had my hands on both SMB and DF. SMB is great for all its reasons, but it can't be compared to Dustforce since they're fundamentally different games. SMB draws much more on artistic theme. DF draws much more on technical gameplay. It's loud and clear that both games have different target audiences. If it isn't to you, then you gotta look and listen harder. These 2 are not better or worse when placed next to each other. Just different. Apples and oranges, ladies and gentlemen.  SMB is more precision platformer than DF is. DF is more momentum platformer than precision. Here are a few points to think about this situation.  SMB is a bit like: - Super Mario Bros. (Movement, as in there are fewer \"tools\" that the player will have and the environment accounts for most of your choices.) - Classic Mega Man (platforming) - A touch of Super Smash Bros style crossovers  DF is a bit like: - Super Smash Bros. series (Movement, as in there are more \"tools\" for the player to use. Environment alone accounts for less than that of SMB. More on that in a bit.) - Zero's character style from Mega Man X series and classic 2D Sonic (platforming) - A touch of Super Smash Bros combat. It's simply \"hold a direction or not\" before hitting an attack button, but the timings must be right or you'll whiff and button mash like a newbie. The momentum style and Super Smash Bros aspect is even confirmed by one the developers. More info on that in the final paragraph.  Dustforce has more weight on utilizing the system of the character at a deeper level akin to fighting games instead of just mainly interacting with the environments themselves. Players must be thinking about what they can do with their options and what the environment calls for at the same time. Much more of the game is in the player's hands instead of the environment forcing decisions in a 1-sided fashion. DF has more meat on character controls than your typical platformer: dashes, air-dashes, air-down-dashes, normal attack, normal attack + directional mid-air, heavy attack, heavy attack + directional mid-air, wall jump, wall running, ceiling running, slope sliding, momentum preservation after hitting enemies while mid-air, fillable gauge for super AoE attack, etc. All of these interact with the physics of the game to produce even more things. All of these are learned as you go and become natural. At least they should be. More attention on what your character is ACTUALLY doing (not what you THINK s/he should be doing) is a must in this game. Level selection also isn't just a grid with things to select. To play a level, you must clear the platforming section to the door in the hub world. This introduces the techniques required to complete such levels. Difficult levels will need the player to be skilled enough to reach them, let alone complete them.  This game has been featured in Games Done Quick speedrun charity events. The Summer Games Done Quick 2015 run (Any% route) also has one of the developers talking with the runner and commentators. I highly recommend seeing that on YouTube if you're still skeptical on buying this game. The dev comments are great and the pro play will undoubtedly be amazing. There are also \"All levels S/S ranking\" runs to watch. Remember, you don't have to be as good as them to enjoy the game.  Some dev comments from that run to note & more: - They thank the community greatly in helping detect cheated runs to delete off the leaderboards. - It's not so much a precision platformer as much as it is a momentum platformer. Get a feel for how far your momentum can carry you and keep going. If you can't make a jump, did you deliberately decelerate in mid-air or after landing on a platform? (You might wanna call up Sonic for some tips. And fire Mario or Mega Man if they happen to be your tutors who said that they'll teach you everything you need to know about platforming. You got scammed.) - The game is inspired in part by N+, and Super Smash Bros. series. - Coding for the movement and momentum consists of about 5,000 lines to be able to do what it can do. Some minor inconsistencies exist most likely due to rounding errors, but you wouldn't notice unless you were told about them or spent lots of time experimenting. None of these will bar you from completing the game at any skill level (obviously many have already done so) as all physics interactions discovered were tested. - Difficult levels requiring skill to reach and enter in the hub world is a system to help players recognize their strengths and weaknesses versus a traditional level selection screen where players would just get walled and discouraged by surprise difficulty spikes.","hours":3.3,"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":0.9375}
{"review":"tl;dr -> In Dustforce DX you play as a master warrior-janitor on a never-ending quest to rid the world of all dirt and dirt-spreading creatures while listening to a fantastic electronic soundtrack.  I got this game in a bundle, and was really excited to try it because of all the technical gameplay mechanics - like the complex executions you have to use in order to make your run look as seamless as possible. I had watched a few speedruns on YouTube and was pleasantly surprised with the quality of experience provided by Dustforce DX.  If you like cleaning, artsy and smooth platforming gameplay, a stellar electronic soundtrack, chaining combos, score attacks, and challenging mechanics, then you will really enjoy this game.  The aesthetics are great - the detail in the different levels is very high and well-done. The music and sound effects are awesome, and I will provide a link to the OST here because it is that good; I think the only other game OST I ever linked in my review was NEOTOKYO's.  Dustforce DX OST.   The controls are a bit tricky to learn, but the tutorials are very helpful and will ensure you get a firm grasp on the game's mechanics before you start your janitorial runs. You can try using a controller, but the keyboard bindings work just as well. The learning curve is minimal to moderate - one of the most difficult elements of the game is combining the different actions in order to achieve a smooth run. Combos are also essential for reaching many areas in each level and progressing deeper into the game. For example, you may have to wall run upward, double/wall jump several times, and hit a dustball/enemy at the top in order to reach a higher level (and if you do everything except hitting the object at the top, you will not be able to make the climb). Practising and repeating levels will really hone your skills.  Overall, the gameplay is very quick and technical - chaining the proper actions is critical. Once you can achieve a seamless run, the visual aesthetics are so satisfying and rewarding. The main hub will allow you to access the options and all the levels, however, you must unlock new levels by completing preceding ones. There are a good number of levels available for you to test your skills, and the game offers a lot of time value if you are really into speedruns and 100% completion. During your playthrough, you must complete each level in a set amount of time, while maintaining a smooth (finesse) run. If you can finish the stage within the time limit and maintain a good combo bar, then you will achieve a double S rank (best possible score).  For the achievement junkies, there is only one to collect, and this requires you to complete every level by performing the most perfect possible run. I really, really love this type of achievement system in a game, and not the stupid, meaningless artificial-game-lengthener types found in games like Lucius (which I will be reviewing soon) - where you need 20 and 40 game hours when the game takes ~10 hours to complete. No, in Dustforce DX there's just one, challenging achievement that involves you spending quite a bit of time refining your skills and experience so you can obtain those perfect runs.  The game can get a bit repetitive once you've invested a large amount of time, however, the variety in level layout and different enemy types adds lots of playability. There are also different characters with slightly different attributes, allowing for a unique playstyle depending on who you select (ex: one character has quicker drops and longer jump range).  If you like challenging platformers with an emphasis on finesse and score attacks, then you must give this game a try.  Definitely recommend!  Cheers, DJSF @DJSF's Rogue Reviews","hours":3.6,"funny_percent":0.04,"helpful_percent":0.8}
{"review":"Beautiful art. Beautiful music. Beautiful gameplay.  A true joy to play.","hours":12.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7586206896551724}
{"review":"pretty sweet","hours":1982.4,"funny_percent":0.6428571428571429,"helpful_percent":0.7142857142857143}
{"review":"Who would have guessed: a 2D indie platformer can be challenging and difficult and yet be--gasp!--ENJOYABLE?! Considering there seems to be a trend for games that confuse challenge with stress and difficulty with laboriousness, this game is kind of a miracle. For starters, it has a learning curve. Yes: an ACTUAL LEARNING CURVE. You have some brief tutorials to help you get the hang of the controls, with are fairly complex and prety tricky to get right, and soon you're in a \"nexus\" which you can traverse and unlock levels. These levels come in different difficulties, and you hve to beat a certain number of easier levels to get keys and unlock the harder ones. As usual, the controls define about half of the playability and the fun of the game, and they work quite well here. It strikes a balance between fast, fluid, complex and challenging. Yes, it can get annoying and a little innaccurate at times, but those flaws seem to be more due to the natural limitations of keyboard controls rather than the game designers letting them suck deliberately because \"that makes it HARD!!!\". The only thing that does annoy me is how the gravity works: within a millisecond, you'll switch from \"gently floating down\" to \"plummetting like a stone\". I don't think this adds anything to the game. The levels are good, and range from flowing and pleasant to devilishly hard. So far, I've played more than half of the levels, and only one was seriously beyond my skills. The others, at their most difficult, are reasonably doable. Also, you're not expected to simply reach the end of the level: the more dust you clean up, the higher your \"Completion\" rank goes up, and the higher the combo you get at the end, the higher your \"Finesse\" rank (it took me ages to understand what that meant). The higher your ranks, the sooner you get keys to unlock the harder levels. Also, if you're really perverted, you can try to improve your time and improve your rank in the scoreboard. If you like speedrunning, you'll have a field day. Finally, I really enjoy the art style. The visuals are pretty, cartoony and slightly dreamy. The music is nice, and whomever wrote it did a pretty good job at imitating Tycho. Also, you get to choose from four different characters: the guy in blue, and... er... four others. (another gripe I have is that you have to choose your character EVERY TIME you start a level. Sheesh, why not choose once, at the beginning of the game, and let me change it later if I want to?) I'm glad I got this game, and I'm glad for the time I spent on it. I still have quite a lot to play, but I'm already satisfied. Fans of platformers should definitely take notice.","hours":7.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"No reviews for Dustforce? Surely this is a bug...  Dustforce is, and most likely will be, my favorite indie game of all time. I've never really even been into speedrunning platformers, but I absolutely loved this game.  The visuals. They're so simple, and are perfect for this game. It has a lovely look that never gets tiring to look at.  The flow/feel. Dustforce just feels great to play. Whether it's on keyboard or controller, this game has a flow that feels like you're riding through a musical masterpiece.  The soundtrack. Naturally, achieving flawless runs is what you aim for in this game, and naturally, it can get frustrating as the difficulty increases. Thanfully lifeformed (the artist) has created the absolutely perfect soundtrack for this game. The calming tunes are insanely catchy, as well as soothing to the soul as you unfortunately realize you missed a piece of dust 20% through that track you've never SS'd.  The devs. They just seem like awesome people who love making games. They've released their financial information on Dustforce after all it has been through (steam, humble bundle etc), which is a rare thing to do. They also created a level editor and website for people to share! They are currently developing a new game called Spire, which will be an instant purchase for me =]  tl;dr - If you have the tiniest spark of interest after seeing some screenshots or gameplay, buy it and play. You will not be dissapointed; only pleasently surprised.","hours":318.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8333333333333334}
{"review":"A criminally underrated platformer with slick visuals, tight controls, and a terrific soundtrack. Despite (or perhaps because of) the crushing difficulty, getting a perfect score on a tough level is extremely satisfying. If you like tough platformers, definitely check this out.","hours":89.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"Dustforce DX is not an easy to pick up game. I'm one of the best active players in the game atm, and as you can see that my hours reflect the dedication needed to be among the of the best.  However, as a casual game, while the mechanics take some getting used to, they start feeling fluid and cohesive. There are 4 action keys along w/ the arrow keys (I use keyboard), which take a ton of time to get into muscle memory. But as the difficulty increases and the game keeps teaching you different mechanics, the satisfaction from beating a difficult level is immense. The soundtrack, composed by one of the devs of the game, is simple and elegant IDM, creating a calmer atmosphere, even in the middle of spikes.  I'd highly recommend this game to fans of technical platforming and those who enjoy a real challenge and have real patience in gaming. If you want to achieve a really good time, or complete that really difficult level, it'll take a while to get there. But I think the dedication and payoff is worth it.","hours":1464.6,"funny_percent":0.05555555555555555,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"This has to be my favorite platformer on steam at the moment. I've put in 35+ hours as of writing this review, and I'll put in plenty more trying to SS every level. The difficulty ramps up quite a bit as you make your way through each level, and the seemingly simple controls open up to some fantastic speed tech once you learn a few tricks. With a replay system that allows you to watch anyone's play through of a level, you'll want to go back and improve your time trying new techniques you see other players use. It can get quite competitive between you and people on your friends list as you try to one up each other. The music is absolutely glorious. The OST itself is a great buy, definitely have that on rotation in my playlist. The art style is simple and clean, the animations are smooth and the game looks and feels better and better the faster you go. If you enjoy difficult precision platformers, or love games with mechanics that allow you to go fast, this is a purchase you won't regret.","hours":70.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.85}
{"review":"If you dislike speed-running, you won't enjoy this game.  If you aren't willing to try and go faster, the first half is about as exciting as a walking simulator.  If you aren't willing to master the various tricks needed to go faster, the second half will be a lesson in gaming masochism.  But if you do, or are willing to learn,  Broom! Robe! Do not lose them, we are not made of money! ","hours":85.1,"funny_percent":0.23529411764705882,"helpful_percent":0.8823529411764706}
{"review":"I do like this game, but I have a lot of trouble recommending it to anyone. The decisions the developer made here seem actively antagonistic to new players. I would have to link the game along with 3-4 different guides just to make sure whoever I recommended it to had a decent chance of enjoying it. If you have all the information it really is quite good. It's just that the game never bothers to give you the information you need in order to enjoy it.  Here are the things wrong with this game.  1) The tutorial is too hard. Instead of spreading the 3 tutorial levels out over time the game requires you to be able to execute even the advanced mechanics right from the beginning. I imagine some casual players may not even be able to complete these 3 tutorial levels. These levels also lack any kind of flow, and so they're also just bad levels in general.  2) The tutorial is too short. The tutorial doesn't explain some very key movement mechanics that are profoundly unintuitive to the point that they are literally the opposite of reality. There's a hidden \"charge\" system the game never explains that allows you to either dash or jump in mid-air. Not all of the cases where the recharges happen are explained and so the player is left without enough information to even begin to tackle anything past the first 15 courses. The player is forced to look up a guide online or spend a lot of time randomly button mashing in order to progress.  3) The \"overworld\" is dumb and confusing. Instead of the devs bothering to figure out which order the levels should be in the game has you exploring these 4 zones between the worlds in order to find new levels. Sometimes this requires executing extraordinarily difficult platforming tricks as well as a key obtained from doing really well on previous levels. The layout of this zone is very confusing, and it is very very very very very frustrating having to deal with a dumb mini-game just to get to the next course. The courses are hard enough on their own. I already did well enough on the courses in order to get the key. Just let me pick them from a menu, and don't lock content behind meaningless redundant skill gates you didn't think through properly before you implemented. It's very easy to get stuck.  4) Keys aren't explained. The game doesn't explain adequately how to obtain keys. This leads to being stuck until you look up a guide online that explains how to get more keys.   5) Key colors are difficult to differentiate. I'm a little bit color-blind. The game has like 5 key colors. I can only differentiate between silver and \"the rest of them.\" They bothered to make the key icons look different, but not the locks. So good luck being able to figure out where to take a key you just obtained because a) the lock colors are all very similar and b) you might not even be able to get there due to point #3.  6) Character differences are not explained. 2 of them are quite similar while the other 2 are quite different from all others. It would have been nice to have been told by the game why I should ever choose a different character than the default.  In conclusion, I do like this game, but don't be afraid to look up guides on how the mechanics of the game work. It's really not fun if you don't do that.  I also want to reiterate again that the entire concept of The Nexus feels very much like the dev fell in love with their own \"clever\" idea, and never bothered to think through the ramifications of what they were doing. I'm sure it took a lot of time to build and design, but it only ever serves to frustrate and impede player progress to new courses. Just save yourself the trouble and look up a YouTube video that shows how to navigate to all the courses along with a map of door lock colors. You will have a much better time of it.","hours":61.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.75}
{"review":"Good music, neat visuals and great platforming. The type of game that rewards you for your time spent by giving you more freedom for mastering its movement. If you like challenging platformers then this game is for you.","hours":1293.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9090909090909091}
{"review":"This game deserves the fame that Super Meat Boy got.","hours":0.3,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8461538461538461}
{"review":"Fun","hours":3807.2,"funny_percent":0.10526315789473684,"helpful_percent":0.7368421052631579}
{"review":"Brilliant momentum-based platformer. Calm music, well-designed levels and very comfy art. Game has no cons.","hours":58.2,"funny_percent":0.16666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.8333333333333334}
{"review":"One of the most fluid and beautiful looking (and sounding) platformers i've played in years. The intense feeling of flow you get when you run through a course and everything clicks is really amazing. Not for the faint of heart, of course, but for those of us who've always loved platformers, i would say it is a must :)","hours":7.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8461538461538461}
{"review":"My video review:  YouTube™ Video: Dustforce Review  Views: 3,800 My review of Dustforce, enjoy! Written copy: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Icbh81-RZRHoGcHBt9aWxKDRPx0l492R1QzQafnVbwA/edit ","hours":19.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Dustforce is perhaps the best platformer of its kind that I've ever played. It's slick, beautiful, and most importantly the movement feels perfect.  The gameplay is what you expect it to be - you progress from level to level, attempting to complete it as fast as possible (with global leaderboards on time). Additional depth is added by the inclusion of your broom, used to sweep 'dust' as you run and hit 'enemies' with, building up a combo which you are rated on along with the time. Although initially the game may seem laggy or unresponsive, within a few hours you become accustomed to how the momentum and motion works in the game and begin to understand that the opposite actually holds. The game gives you perfect control, and punishes the tiniest of your mistakes.  That's really where the beauty lies. The skill ceiling is incredibly high, obvious to see if you watch a speedrun of this game. The game encourages you towards this perfection, and indeed the only achievement in this game is one of completing it - a feat few people (myself not included) have achieved. There's no RNG in the game, it's just you and how you play. This is certainly not for everyone, but for those few who don't like grinding and obtaining perfect muscle memory, the game hits all the right buttons  It is also worth mentioning the soundtrack. Some games have terrible music. Some games have good music for the game. Some have soundtracks that are amazing standalone, and this is one of them. It's (largely) calm, electronic stuff that's perfect for relaxing or concentrating too. Look it up on youtube - Fastfall by Lifeformed is the album.  For me, it's one of my favourite games ever, and I haven't even put that much time into it.","hours":244.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"This is quite the unique platformer. Instead of simply jumping from any ordinary platform to the next, it takes some sort of pseudo-Sonic approach of fast paced, all-surfaces high-octane super-platforming.  Let me be frank: this game is hard. Sure, it does a good job of easing you into it, but this isn't just some casual romp. Be prepared to put all your effort into getting constant SS ranks if you want to explore all the game's content.  The visuals are pleasing and colorful, just a nice view for the eyes. The music is likewise calm and soothing techno, which is just as well to ease you from the rage that will transpire.  The game controls butter smooth, and has a lot of depth from a rather simple means of traversing the maps. I did have one complaint about the controls, namely the lack of complete controller support. Most basic buttons are there, except the menu button. I can't even count how many times I've had to restart, and I have to do it all from going to the keyboard to press escape. Is an extra respec option too much to ask for? EDIT: Though there is no option to respec the escape menu in the controls, I found that the \"instant restart\" key in another menu is able to be bound to a controller button, which is quite swell.  Another complaint I have, though not with the game, is the lack of community attention. When exploring the nexus, it is entirely up to me to find the one bronze door that I still have a key for, and it still eludes me because no one has a nexus map uploaded.  All said, it's crazily addictive to the right people, namely: twitch-reflex, practice-based skill games that never stop the action.","hours":15.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Here is the thing. This game is not for everyone. It doesn't reward you with stupid stuff like other games. The reward is satisfaction of getting a good ranking.   The music is some of the best in any game ever. The controls are great albeit hard to get used to. This is a beautiful game and you will have a beautiful time playing it if you give it a chance and let it grow on you.  ","hours":18.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Pros: .Super fun after you learn how to play fluidly .Amazing soundtrack (10/10) .A leaderboard-replay system that really fits into the game .Even if you manage to complete ALL the levels, a lot of users are still uploading maps in the 'atlas'.  Cons: .Can be discouraging at the first hours .Needs some small updates .steam sale not found  The tutorials in Dustforce are the tip of the iceberg.  9/10","hours":92.2,"funny_percent":0.1,"helpful_percent":0.9}
{"review":"Extremely clean.","hours":7.5,"funny_percent":0.6666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.8333333333333334}
{"review":"Dustforce is imo the best platformer ever made. The crispest of controls combined with a beautiful art style and a nice soundtrack. 10/10","hours":45.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8181818181818182}
{"review":"You clean bears.","hours":128.1,"funny_percent":0.7105263157894737,"helpful_percent":0.6052631578947368}
{"review":"Best platformer ever.","hours":52.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"This game... is so much fun !!! Great relaxing soundtrack, smooth non-restrictive gameplay and a lot of hidden techniques to compete with other people. Retrying is extremely quick, dying animations are fast and let you try again instantly. Best leaderboards I've seen in a while. You can watch every single replay whether it's the current world record time or some dudes 10000th ranking try. It's awesome and it's a must buy for everyone who likes to be challenged !","hours":250.4,"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":0.75}
{"review":"In this unique and challenging platformer you play as an acrobatic janitor, it is very HARD as some levels requires perfection to complete but I never thought that cleaning up leaves could be that funny. The soundtrack is great and the well polished animations makes the game always entertaining. The only downside is that you need to configure your controller (xbox360) manually.","hours":0.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"This is one of my favorite games. The controls and movement feel so good. In the beginning when you haven't learned the mechanics it feels sort of clunky, but as you improve the game develops a really nice flow. This makes mastering levels really satifying. In most platformers I just want to make it through each level and move on. This was the first game where I found myself revisiting levels just because I wanted to do a better job.  Another great part of this game is the way they handle the learning curve. There are plenty of levels that a beginner can approach, and each of these helps teach you the tricks and strategies you'll need to tackle the more difficult parts. They never spoon-feed you any technique, but instead let you develop it yourself as you work your way through. It almost feels like your character is leveling up and learning new abilities throughout the game, but it's actually just you getting better.","hours":121.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"If you haven't given Dustforce a shot by now, you should. The skill ceiling is way up there, but the game is also relaxing to play casually. Dustforce's mechanics are a fairly unique form of movement to traditional platformers, so the basics may feel clunky at first as you try to understand how to use your abilities sufficiently. If you've played Melee, Dustforce will be no stranger to you.  If you're worried about the game's difficulty, there are bountiful community resources to help you improve. Even if you're not the competitive type, learning the mechanics will make the game much more interesting to navigate beyond the bouncy music and cheery visuals, plus it'll cut down on frustration trying to SS the later levels.  Completionists and speedrunners will get the most out of this game. Exploration is awarded with secrets hidden in nearly every level, and the community loves healthy competition in the leaderboards.  After 400 hours of (online and offline) play, there's a reason Dustforce is my favourite game of all time.","hours":340.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Worth every penny. 10/10  Game's core features: Dusting/Sweeping Different Playable Characters Platforming Parkour Special Gague Level Evaluation/Grading System (S, A, B, C, D) Easy Controls Semi-Open environment  Dusting/Sweeping: If you couldn't tell already the main idea behind this game is dusting levels with a tool that varies depending on what character you play as.  Different Playable Characters: There are four playable characters, each have different tools they use to clean up the dust with: A kitchen Broom, a Push Broom, Feather Dusters and a Vacuum, each of these somehow seem to complete the characters personality, even though so far there hasn't been any dialogue. Each character has a different \"Style\" of moving about, not really sure how to describe it, but there is a slightly different feeling between each of the characters.  Platforming: Not much to say here, you jump from platform to platform, however i will say the platforming isn't very repetitive and just feels right.  Parkour: Not Minecraft-Style \"parkour\", we're talking runing up a wall to jump to the next wall, then jump off of that wall to reach a platform, dash to get speed jump and RUN ON THE CIELING of the next platform to procede to the next section of the level, it's incredible and you feel like a champ for pulling off these stunts.  Special Gague: As you progress through each level and clean up dust, a gague at the bottom of the screen will slowly start filling up, once this gague fills completely, you can use a special move. This move is incredibly useful and does not change depending on which character you are (in one way I am glad that that's how it works, however in another way I am slightly dissapointed...) when you activate your special move your character will flash across the screen cleaning up all the dust within a certain radius of the character. It looks very much like a scene from a typical fighting anime show, but it's funny cause it's just them cleaning up dust.  Level Evaluation System: You are graded on two criteria after completing a level: How much of the dust you clean up in a level (Completion), and how many times your combo meter gets set back to 0 (Finese). S is the highest grade you can reach and D is the lowest (at least I think, it's the lowest I've gotten...). Once completing a level you will be awarded points towards different keys whih will allow you to complete other levels in the game.  Easy Controls: At the begining of the game you are bombarded with lots of information that seems a bit overwhelming at first, however the levels in each area ease you into learning the controls and before you know it, it's like second nature to you and you're pulling off nice fluid parkour tricks.  Semi Open-Environment: Each actual level is actually not connected to another, however, you don't choose the level from the menu, instead you're navigating your character to the next doorway wich will take you to the level. It would be like the old Mega Man X games met Super Metroid. Even the game menu is navigated this way.  Other Features: Hand painted graphics and a really nice \"chill out\" styled soundtrack. Reminescent of an old Sega Genesis or SNES game.","hours":44.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"The Best platformer currently on Linux. Probably the best 2d platformer ever.  Cons: -Difficulty Curve definately not for newcomers of the platforming genre, or for impatient people. As this game is throughly made around it's mechanics. You will fail, you'll die, you'll be enraged when you can't beat a tough section. Infact I first made a joke review saying how you'll love the tutorial, because I could not get to the 3rd tutorial, Yes not beat, get to. This is also how dustforce teaches new players. By tempting a challange and use the player's curiousity to solve the issue. -Story The closest thing to a story is the opening sequence (Which can be disabled), and probably the multiplayer, but this is not a major issue. As the game was clearly not designed for story.  Pros: -Graphics Dustforce uses a vibrant and simplistic artstyle. It's soothing to look at, completely complementary to the gameplay. Your 5 enviroments are distinctive, the tranquil forest, the grimy city roof tops, the minimalistic virtual levels, the haunting manor levels, and the futuristic lab levels. However they are not so distinct that you get tired of seeing them. A forest level might have a noon set stroll while another is at peaceful midnight.  -Effects The effects blend the artstyle and gameplay into a satisfying adventure. When you get that tail glow, not only does it look awesome, but helps keep track of your super attack. The trash particles when you sweep them up, feels rewarding, but also gives you visual feedback that you hit that part and you don't need to look back. Which helps the main concept of this game. -Music Like the Graphics, the music is reciprocal to the tough gamplay. Relaxing, and energetic the music calms the player. The devs knew it's not supposed to be snowing on your parade, so they took their cider time, and made their world a safe place to sleep. If you can't handle the frustrating 9-Bit expedition this game provides. Then buy this soundtrack. -Gameplay This is Why dustforce is the contender for best 2D platformer of all time. The platforming is fast paced, and gratifying. Nailing those jumps you once couldn't do as a newbie, is a sensation I rarely get from other platformers, but here it's every level. Hitting enemies and hearing that sweet SWACK sound is delightfully empowering. Even the hub world provides a amusing playground. The controls and fluid movement take some time to get use to, but you'll take to it like walking. -Level Design No other game knows itself better than dustforce. Their are several parts where you think, this can't be possible. But try, you'll get it eventually. Infact plottwists for this game is finding the new ways you can run in your virtual earth. The story of this game is it's gameplay.  -Level Editor You'd be suprised at the complexity of this thing, it offers basic building blocks and enemy placement, to light configurations and dynamic camera angles. The community maps are a treat, and diverse thanks to this robust editor.  -Multiplayer A fun distraction, very limiting because you have such a small arsonal, but a good time with friends. -SpeedRuning Normally I would not list this as a positive or negative, but man, Dustforce lives by it's speed running community. I'll never be as good as Luffy, Thor, or Freshmanic. But I love trying to beat the guy at 784th place on the leader boards, especially when I succeed.  Conclusion: Play this game. I don't care if you get the steam version, playstation, or even if you pirate it. This game is a must play for fans of platformers.","hours":41.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}

{"review":"You shoot stuff and try to do combos for score and then you die and you restart 50 times. The restart thing is fast enough to not make you angry or ragequit.  Eez good.","hours":10,"funny_percent":0.09830508474576272,"helpful_percent":0.9423728813559322}
{"review":"The only sexual content in this game is ","hours":62.9,"funny_percent":1.683453237410072,"helpful_percent":0.9088729016786571}
{"review":"An intense high-adrenaline top down shooter with an amazing soundtrack. Not for the thin of skin.","hours":27.9,"funny_percent":0.07476635514018691,"helpful_percent":0.9345794392523364}
{"review":"Damn, you died. 5 seconds later: Damn, you died again. 3 seconds later: Died again. Ugh. 1 minute later: Almost through the whole level flawlessly, get caught by a guy off-screen with a shotgun, through a window. Infuriated, you respawn and try again.  Why haven't you given up, yet? The soundtrack.","hours":4.8,"funny_percent":0.5718390804597702,"helpful_percent":0.9281609195402298}
{"review":"Having played 28 hours of this game, I've decided to tell you why I think that this game is worth every cent. Obviously, It is absolutely imperative that you play the original game BEFORE playing this one.  Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number is a game developed by Dennaton Games and published by Devolver Digital and serves as the sequel for Hotline Miami, a \"A hyper-violent top-down shooter/brawler\" and one of the most critically aclaimed indie games of all time. The game takes place after, during, and before the events of its predecessor and manages to maintain some of the frantic action that popularized the first game, HOWEVER, Wrong Number is much more story focused than the the original and serves as the developers way to tie up loose ends.  The gameplay retains certain aspects of from Hotline Miami but the levels are designed in such a way that you have to cower in fear behind each door and wait for the perfect moment so as to not get either snipped by a shotgun from across the map or spotted through a window. I, like most people, didnt enjoy this kind of level design, because there are enemies outside your camera's range who can react faster than you and end what seemed like a perfect run. One of the aspects the latter didnt retain from the former was the melee combat. In this game, melee combat was somewhat nerfed, making the melee swing slower and the and the range smaller.  One of the most controversial characteristics of Hotline Miami 2 is its relatively large cast of playble characters. But Haplop, how could more characters equal less fun. Well for starters you have more characters but less unique playstyles. There are 27 masks each with their unique gimmicks and playstyles opposed to the 14 characters of Hotline Miami 2. Whats more is that there most characters dont add anything new, here's whats new. Fists of Fury,(used by 2 different characters), lethal punches, cant pick up any weapons, wich renders it sorta useless since the levels are so big. Dodge Roll,(used by 2 different characters) you press space to dodge in the direction you are pointing and become invincible in the mean time, can sometime cause you to miss floor executions. Chainsaw and Guns,(unique) you control one of 2 sibllings wich (the one rocking the chainsaw), with your right mouse button you force the second sibling to shoot. The AI on the second sibling can be kinda buggy, and will sometimes become stuck behind walls while you charge inside a room full of mobsters armed to the teeth with nothing but a chainsaw. Two machine guns, (used by 2 different characters) you start with 2 smgs, you can have 64 bullets and can only reload once, after that, there is nothing special to it. Start with a nailgun,(unique)- 24 nails, silent killer, nothing out of the ordinary. Inner warrior,(unique) Fists of Fury with nunchucks. Remember the Richter and Aubrey mask from the previous game? They now grant no special abilities. There is also a character wich instead of killing can incapacitate and disarm foes for bonus points. You also get to play as a soldier wich can switch between a knife and one of for weapons ( a rifle, a shotgun, a sniper rifle and a flamethrower) but cant pickup any other weapons.  The soundtrack is just downright beautiful featuring the works of El Huervo, M|O|O|N, Perturbator and many other independent artists, it can go from slow and melancholic to full on assault in seconds and it really does not only live up to the standards set by the previous game but somehow also manages to surpass them by a pretty big stretch. Not only that but the audio in general is really descriptive and the mushy sound of grey matter splattering all over the room does add to the gory factor of the game, wich by the way, makes great use of the Hitchcock effect (google it) The sprites may seem a bit, how should I put it, wonky (?) at first but after playing through it you realize that it is one of the best way to convey to the player the setting of Miami's 1980's.   Overall the game in itself is great, the gameplay isnt as satisfying as that of the 1st game but the story is beautifully written. Its a much more down-to-earth game and the story always has you feeling sorrowful and melancholic while still keeping you interested and engaged as you watch this immensely dense plot unravel before your eyes while you cant really do anything about it. I guess that that is what really gives you a sense of accomplishment, once you manage to get the bigger picture that is. So...  Do you still like hurting other people?  Let me know if you agree with this review or not.","hours":42.6,"funny_percent":0.059233449477351915,"helpful_percent":0.9477351916376306}
{"review":"I feel the need to make an actual review for this game, because too many positive reviews for it are just memes and can be overshadowed by the more comprehensive negative reviews.  Hotline Miami can be tough to talk about, because Hotline Miami 1 was such a hit that this game will always be compared to it based on HM1's merits alone. The original game was about a masked serial killer who got mysterious phone calls threatening him into carrying out hits on mob locations. The whole story was pretty strange and trippy, with very little being what it seems. The gameplay was super fast and hectic as you ran around scavenging whatever you could find to beat the brains out of the army of mafia waiting in the buildings. The combat was close quarters-oriented with some enemies with guns, but mostly melee focused. Each mask had different abilities that affected your starting weapon, or gave you abilities like killing punches or spawning more guns as random pickups. All in all, it was a fairly good game with all of this.   The reason why I didn't really like Hotline Miami 1 was because the AI was actually fairly buggy and reacted either very sluggishly or hyper-quickly, without reason. The level design was very tight, and due to the ridiculous speed of everything, it felt too hard to control. I would finish a level and feel like I'd gotten lucky.  Hotline Miami 2 managed to fix a fair amount of the problems with the first. The combat is slowed down somewhat. Guns fire slower, melee weapons swing slower, and the level design is more open, allowing some more freedom of movement (the combo meter also lasts longer naturally). The result, in my opinion, is that the gameplay feels much more tight and controlled. The weapons swings feel like they have more weight to them, guns kill much more effectively, and the levels feel less restrictive. However, I've seen a lot of people say that they felt the opposite, and that they were driven more towards using guns because there are more enemies with guns, so melee is now useless. In the same vein, people hated the more open maps because they felt that there was a tendency to get shot from off-screen by an unseen enemy, or through glass.  I would say that Hotline Miami 2 is somewhat less casual than the first, which is why I think so many people feel that it's too hard. I bought both games together, and after I finished 1 I jumped straight into 2. The difficulty spike is noticable; it's been stated by the developers that it was primarily geared towards players who'd played the first game and knew how it worked. That being said, I didn't find it too hard to get into the groove of Hotline Miami 2. I died a ton at the start, and really all the way throughout, but it never felt like I had died due to BS game design, but rather my own mistakes or miscalculations. I think HM2 is meant to be played with a bit more planning in mind. You can rush in and fight, but it doesn't usually go well. However, it's also not like you need to plan your every move. You just need to observe enough that you know what you're about to get into. From there, it gets much easier. I said earlier that I felt like I'd gotten lucky when I'd finished a level in HM1. In HM2, I had felt quite the opposite. In each level, once I knew what I needed to do, I felt like I was much more in control. I finished levels and felt satisfied, without the tinge of anger or the \"I just got lucky that time\" feeling.  As for the gameplay problems: There are definitely more guns, and the gameplay is more gun oriented, but I wouldn't go so far as to say that melee play is impossible. To be honest, it felt the opposite in HM1; guns felt out of place, and, in many instances, rather ineffective. I feel like 2 strikes a better balance, even if it seems to favor guns more. Many levels still can be played with melee weapons, it just requires, as I said earlier, some more patience and planning. You just need to know what you're walking into.   As for the glass panes and off-screen deaths: I've encountered the first, but not the second. There are, once again, more glass panes for enemies to shoot you through that in HM1, but that is always a two-way street: You can just as easily shoot them better as well. As for the off screen deaths, I have almost never, at any moment in HM2, died to an enemy that I COULDN'T have been able to see. What do I mean by this? Well, the camera obviously places the most emphasis on the direction you're facing or trying to look. Whenever I've been killed by an \"off-screen enemy\", I've really just been killed by one that I couldn't see because I was looking the wrong way, in a sense. It's easier to notice if you look at gameplay of it. The only exception to this are the crouching gun enemies which pop up when the player is in their line of sight, becuase they have a huge sight range for some reason. They alone are the enemies that can kill you before you can see them. I think all of the other enemies have about the same ( or a bit less) of the sight range of the player.   What about the more open maps? Well, I'm mixed. Some maps are straight up huge, but they actually aren't that hard to traverse and fight through. Others, particulary Hard News, Blood Money, and Takeover, are unforgivably open, and cannot be played easily without guns (or really at all for Blood Money). But otherwise, as big as some maps are, you can still play through them using melee. Act 5 in particular is a sort of throwback to HM1's more frantic style with somewhat more restricted maps and lots of melee enemies.  The story of HM2 is also something that some players don't like. I don't want to go into it, because there are some big spoilers, but I will say this: HM2's story is far more lucid than HM1's. It's told in a style which constantly switches characters, which is why it seems harder to comprehend, but it's actually fairly easy to piece together if you're observant. Several characters have stories that directly link to HM1, as the story is anachronistic (is that the word?) and takes place before, after, and during the events of HM1.  As for the character abilities: HM2 is definitely more restrictive in playstyles than HM1 in some instances. Few characters/factions have the option of different abilities, but those few abilities that do exist are all very unique and varied. There's one character that can do a dodge roll, another can carry two SMGs. Yet another disarms all the guns he picks up, making him more melee based (see?) but can go rage mode if you kill enemies instead of knocking them out. Some characters have no abilities, and those are personally my favorite, because they have the most open and unrestriced gameplay (as some characters are stupidly restrictive, such as the Fans). The soundtrack also rocks, because it's less ambient than the HM1's. In HM2, the soundtrack carries far more weight and fits the scene better, and is never repetitive.  So that's basically all about Hotline Miami 2 (thanks for sticking around this long). To be honest, The best way to experience this game is to buy it with the first as a combo pack (it only adds $5 to the price of just HM2). That way, you can play both games, experience both playstyles, develop your own opinions, be better prepared for the challenge of Hotline Miami 2, and better appreciate the overall story (which is actually really interesting). That's basically all I have to offer.","hours":234,"funny_percent":0.01652892561983471,"helpful_percent":0.9628099173553719}
{"review":"You know what I like most about Hotline Miami? It's the moment you turn off your brain and go crazy ... and succeed. I mean, at the start of every game I play very careful and stealthy, plan out my moves and execute my actions with precision. But then I get killed by some stupid mistake. I lose my patience and go mad, I rush into a room and just move without a plan or purpose, I'm just \"in the moment\", almost at a state of mindless meditation. Then I come back to my senses and realize the room is a bloodbath and every one is dead ... except me and the red arrow that invites me to the next section.  It surely is ...  Community Created Artwork for Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number By: Burn   All in-game VHS art  A Screenshot of Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number By: Burn Unlocked all achievements!","hours":52.9,"funny_percent":0.15789473684210525,"helpful_percent":0.9323308270676691}
{"review":"After praising this game for ages, I think its time to review it. Pros:  -Fun gameplay -Awesome Story -Best soundtrack ever. -Interesting Characters -Thick skin  Cons: -VERY Hard (You'll break your R key before beating the game) (This can be a pro depending on your opinion) -Large Levels (This wouldn't be an issue if you wouldn't died almost instantaneously) -WINDOWS -Too many long distances between enemies with guns... and they can see you when you can't see them -Not the soundtrack ------------------------ If you love a challenge, hard games, or not getting lunch, I recommend it.  If you don't like hard gameplay, I still suggest the soundtrack, as its only 15$ for 42 songs","hours":37.2,"funny_percent":0.22485207100591717,"helpful_percent":0.8579881656804734}
{"review":"Pros - grammy award level soundtrack - challenging difficulty, forces you to survey the levels carefully and plan every move. if you play this game like HM1 you are going to die a lot and get frustrated - new game plus - multiple interesting characters with varying abilities - vibrant 2d artstyle - the game doesnt overstay its welcome, no filler levels - controls great on kbm and xbox360 pad  Cons - enemies get stuck/glitch on doorways frequently - lacking variety in melee weapons compared to the first. the game is more open in terms of level design so guns play a larger part - cannot stealth execute or use bodies as human shields anymore - inconsistent enemy ai. sometimes they will not see you other times they can see you from halfway across the map with their backs turned","hours":17.8,"funny_percent":0.030864197530864196,"helpful_percent":0.8271604938271605}
{"review":"Hotline Miami 2 is closer to the last levels of the first game (Biker) than the rest of Hotline Miami (Jacket and all his masks), and thus feels like a direct continuation rather than just a new coat of paint. This opinion might seem a bit obtuse now, but I will explain later on why it is an important distinction.  So, why is it a continuation rather than a new take?  Well, at first, the difficulty is brutal right off the bat. This game is aimed at people who already played Hotline Miami 1 and are familiar with the concept of its ultra-violent twitch gameplay associated with tight level design forcing the players to plan their route according to the situations.   And then, the playable characters are mostly forced, just like Biker was, and they have an equally narrow skillset. Biker had a hatchet and three knives to throw but could not pick up weapons? Tony from Hotline Miami 2 has his insta-kill fists but is unable to pick up weapons.  The game moved on from the freedom of choice offered in the majority of Hotline Miami 1, and forces a more controlled experience. This idea goes further, as a lot of levels are designed so tightly that the chaotic action of Hotline Miami 1 has been replaced by puzzles with barely more than one way to solve them.   Moreover, the gameplay is overall less rough around the edges, with more solid surfaces that block bullets, and most especially a seemingly slower speed, I feel more like I have to anticipate every movement rather than play on the fly and let my instincts and skills take over. More 'slow', less 'flow'.  So here I come to the point that I made at the start: Hotline Miami 2 feels like a more controlled experience as a direct continuation to the Biker levels, rather than the early levels with their chaotic sandbox design that allowed for a much wider variety of approaches.   However, enough Hotline Miami 2 levels are not so tight and can offer variety, and a lot of missions offer a choice between different characters or weapons. So the game still does a good job at offering variety. My observation is just that the variety feels forced, rather than the sweet spot and perfect flow that I felt Hotline Miami 1 achieved.  Hotline Miami 2 is more polished that the first one. Way more polished. The levels, atmosphere, sounds/music and storylines have all been crafted with great attention to details and take the player on several journeys that make this sequel well worth playing. The game definitively feels fresh and ambitious rather than 'more of the same', and its controlled chaos makes the first Hotline Miami still relevant with its less polished but more chaotic and free ultra-violence.","hours":41.4,"funny_percent":0.03296703296703297,"helpful_percent":0.8791208791208791}
{"review":"My girlfriend would love it if I could get as hard as this game.","hours":12.3,"funny_percent":2.729299363057325,"helpful_percent":0.7643312101910829}
{"review":"\"Leaving this world is not as scary at it sounds\" - Richard","hours":95.2,"funny_percent":0.1285140562248996,"helpful_percent":0.751004016064257}
{"review":"Do you like hurting other people ?","hours":13.5,"funny_percent":0.13157894736842105,"helpful_percent":0.8333333333333334}
{"review":"Dude, this party sucks, I ꜰᴜᴄᴋɪɴɢ hate these people ","hours":2.6,"funny_percent":0.25675675675675674,"helpful_percent":0.9054054054054054}
{"review":">beats dead ahead on hard mode >takes about 45 minutes of my life >starts to walk out >takes stairs >stairs push me into a ♥♥♥♥ing wall >gets stuck >has to restart dead ahead  10/10 im going to go hang myself","hours":125.7,"funny_percent":1.3333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.8405797101449275}
{"review":"Hotline Miami 2 is neither a step forward or a step back when compared to its legendary original. It is in some ways better than the first and in some ways worse. It is really up to the player to determine if it is as up to par or even better than the first. I'll sum it up quickly in a PROS and CONS list.  PROS   - Amazing soundtrack as usual. Not as iconic as the first but definitely more versatile.  - Slick retro graphics that are slightly improved and more vivid than the first. Soldier's missions also throw in a more hazy variety. And the last level...prepare yourself. - Cleverly written and delivered story that isn't shoved down your throat. In some ways it is open to interpretation, but it is more focused and clear than the original's narrative. - Interesting and engaging characters...whether you hate them or not (screw Manny Pardo though. You'll know why once you play the game).  - Core gameplay itself is as slick as ever. Nothing new as the system was good to begin with. - Upcoming level editor for near endless replayability and experimentation.  - GOTTA GET A GRIP!  CONS - Some levels have very annoying level design with an abundance of windows. Level design is NOT the same as Hotline Miami. It is one of the key break-offs and differences actually. Maps are significantly bigger and that is bittersweet. You will die a lot more times by a goon with a gun off-screen that you couldn't see. This may also be because of slightly smarter AI and I believe field of vision. - Lackluster hard mode. The hard mode is filled with artificial difficulty to the point where it could be viewed as unfair. With the already larger maps, adding in even more windows is frustrating.  - Smooth gameplay experienced from the first can be notably delayed and interrupted because of the level design/hard mode (or both) in some levels.   NEUTRAL - No more iconic mask catalog like you oh so loved in the first game. Instead, you have different characters with different abilities and playstyles depending on the chapter you are playing. The Fans are a group that have masks that each have their own unique ability, such as dual submachine guns, combat roll, or Tony's lethal punches. There's also the budget Batman known as The Writer, and The Soldier, who permanently wields a gun that can have refillable ammo on drops and a combat knife. These characters change how you play the game completely, instead of just perks like the masks in the first game. However, it really depends on what you like. The game is different because of this.    Overall, I personally loved this game. It is one of my favorites, period. I can't decide if I like it more than the first, but I'm definitely pouring more hours into it. I don't believe it SHOULD be compared to the first, but obviously that's inevitable seeing how legendary the first installment is. If you are a fan of the series, I definitely recommend this game. If you liked the first purely for the gameplay, you may be disappointed here as it is different in many ways.   9/10","hours":68.4,"funny_percent":0.043859649122807015,"helpful_percent":0.868421052631579}
{"review":"I'd like to preface this review with a warning to anyone who hasn't played the first Hotline Miami: play that one first. Hotline Miami 2's story and difficulty assumes you've done so. There are other, more critical reasons as well, but I'll touch on that later. This review will be written with those who have played it in mind, but there will be no spoilers for either game.  Intro Holy heck, it's finally here! After two long years and much angst, Hotline Miami 2 is finally on Steam, with new characters, levels, and more groovy tunes than you can shake a bloodied bat at. There's also a semblance of story this time, which is both exciting and slightly worrying: after all, wasn't part of the fun of the first game putting the soggy cardboard puzzle peices together? After about 10 hours marathoning through it all, I'm ready to give the verdict on whether or not Hotline Miami 2 is a worthy successor to the original cult classic.  Story \"Author, you Naughty Dog, why are you focusing on story first, rather than gameplay?\" The answer is pretty simple: the inclusion of an actual story this time means that the gameplay scenarios are more tailored and guided than before. That being said, that doesn't mean the story is any good. The variety of characters and subplots is impressive in its own right, but only two of the many characters get an actual conclusion, while the other's stories just seem to... evaporate. The game ended so suddenly my jaw dropped - not because of any plot twists, but because the ending was so frying-pan-to-the-face abrupt. I'll give credit to Dennaton for creating some very interesting characters to follow, but again, little is done with most of them.   Even with the actual story being mediocre, the thematic elements are interesting when dissected. Much like the first game, HM2's story benefits from discussion, as there are plenty of details that can be missed and multiple interpretations to follow. Without giving away much, the plot feels very much like a yin to the first game's yang, and can even be sobering at times. While it certainly isn't portrayed the most spectacularly, it's clear that plenty of effort was put into the story's themes, and that can certainly be appreciated.  Gameplay Suprise suprise, the nitty gritty of the gameplay isn't that different from its predicessor. What is different is how abilities are handled: instead of playing as one character with a vast swarth of masks to choose from, HM2 switches from character to character depending on the level, due in part to the aformentioned narrative. The variety and swapping between narratives is fun from a purely gameplay standpoint, as each character has their own interesting twists on how they play, and the screentime between characters never feels too condensed or drawn out.   Unlocks are also changed. Instead of simply unlocking masks, beating levels unlocks specific items for the character, or in the case of the Fans, characters. There are no replay-oriented objectives to do to acquire these items; by the time the game ends, all the items will be unlocked.  Level Design Yes, this is getting its own subsection, simply because of how utterly broken the levels become. Besides the fact that there is very little of a difficulty curve (it's more akin to a very steep line), many of the levels are simply too big, rely on scummy techniques to complete, and force very specific, counterintuitive playstyles. Because some levels are so open, moving cautiously and usage of the SHIFT zoom are outright required, lest an enemy shoots at you offscreen. Most of the levels REQUIRE you to use a gun because of how spread out and well-armed the enemies are. Very often there is little choice but to use the \"peekaboo\" tactic, baiting enemies out of their locations to have them run into your preferred melee weapon. Often times, completing levels feels more like a chore than an accomplishment. It's so bad, I can't bring myself to start the game again - this is coming from a guy who HAD to find out the full story in the first game.   These wouldn't be so terrible if the first Hotline Miami didn't do level design and player agency within it's level so well. As it stands, these are baffling designs that Dennaton should have perfected by now.   Music A great compilation of familiar and new artists. Even if some of the levels haphazardly enforce a slower pace, the music selection works well, for the most part. It's not purely bombastic music during gameplay this time around (not that there's anything wrong with bombastic music); depending on the character, his motifs, and the overall setting of the scene, the soundtrack can be very versatile - its not pure adrenaline all the time, like Jacket from the first game. My only complaint is that due to the new variety of songs, the soundtrack seems less focused than before; I guess going from 22 tracks from the first game to a whopping 49 tracks will inevitably cause some trail-off.  Conclusion I think it's important to treat Hotline Miami 2 as less of a sequel and more of a stand-alone expansion. After all, most if not all of the ideas for this game stemmed from DLC ideas from the first. There's a certain charm in playing with ideas that developers once had on their \"MAYBIE?\" section of their office whiteboard. The story is structured as a companion to the first game rather than a continuation. Overall, Hotline Miami 2 is a glass of wine that goes well with a bourbon steak; a wonderful compliment to the flavor of the main course, but not really something to be enjoyed purely on it's own.","hours":17.4,"funny_percent":0.03773584905660377,"helpful_percent":0.7987421383647799}
{"review":"Hotline miami 2. Do you like hurting other people ? If you do, then this game is for you !   I am not going to spoil the story, so i'll leave some things that i liked and i hated about hotline miami. Pros: - Amazing soundtrack, you will get addicted to it. - Beautiful pixel graphics - Good story - Plenty of weapons, Pistols, SMGs, LMG and Specials. Cons :  - Has some minor glitches  Notes: You might face some difficulties, but its normal. Dying in this game is actually a path to learn some techniques and master them.  Soundtrack : 10/10 Graphics 9.6/10  Story 8.4/10 Gameplay and Mechanism : 9.3/10 Overall : 9.5/10  I really enjoyed the game, If you are planning on buying the game, I sugguest you to get it on sale for a cheap price. That's it folks, Enjoy !","hours":8,"funny_percent":0.044444444444444446,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"\"Welcome to the Salty Spatoon. How tough are ya?\"  \"How tough am I? I beat Hotline Miami 2.\"  \"So.\"  \"On Hard Difficulty\"  \"Step right in\"   In all seriousness this is just more Hotline Miami just with much larger and more annoying levels. You will be killed by: enemies that are off screen, your character not picking a loaded weapon insted picking up a small knife, the gun not firing because its stuck in a wall, pressing space not executing the downed foe infront of you and various other cheap deaths. However that being said, this game is just just as violent and satisfying as the first. It's not as good as the first overall, but still good. The sound track is excellent and the story does conclude in such a way that there's probably not going to be another game in the series. Just don't play the hard mode if you don't like cheap deaths. If you liked the first game then I would say play this game as soon as possible. If you haven't played the first game (seriously get the first game its dirt cheap when on sale and still quite cheap when not), its hard for me to recommend this game at full price wait till a sale if possible.  P.S. if you thought the genocide run in Undertale was painful, try getting the genocide achievement for this game.","hours":43.9,"funny_percent":1.164179104477612,"helpful_percent":0.9402985074626866}
{"review":"Hotline Miami 2 is the highly anticipated sequel to Hotline Miami (duh). Hotline Miami (which from now on I will call hlm because thats easier to type out) is a crazy top down shooter with a super dope soundtrack. It's filled with violence and moments that leave you just in awe. HLM2 has lots positives and negatives and I feel that the easiest way for me to do this review is if I split this into a list of Pos/Negs and then give my final word on the game.  Positive Soundtrack The music in this game actually manages to improve on the first game's. The songs get you super pumped up and ready to blow heads off or get you feeling mellow and make you reflect upon the bloodbath you just caused. I really reccomend you buy the soundtrack here. Weapon variety There are a load of new guns and melees for you to try to murder someone with. The guns are a welcome change, the gun play is sorta refreshing now, because it feels like there is an actual variety in what gun to use. Story Some people may not like the story, but personally I really enjoyed the way that they did the story. There was backstory to HLM1 and it showed the world after the events of HLM1 too. I won't spoil anything but the ending is definitely going to annoy a lot of people but personally I thought it was a great way to end off the game.  Negative Level Design You probably expected me to complain about this because frankly everyone has. The levels are way too big and open which would be only half as bad if the levels also werent littered with windows and it is very very annoying to get sniped from some butthead across the level. \"Hide and Seek\" The game has basically become playing hide and seek in order to clear levels due to the size and windows leaving you out in the open and vulnerable to be shot by someone you cannot see. Soldier levels The soldier levels are honestly one of the most unfun levels in the game due to being limited to one gun and knife the whole time and having to refill your ammo only to get half the normal amount of ammo. It leads to you camping the nearest ammo bin and just luring people to you.  Hotline Miami 2 is a game for the diehard fans of the first game who want a conclusion to the story and are willing to deal with the new style of play in this game in order to recieve the conclusion they dearly wanted. If you're not a fan of 1 or don't really want to play the story I'd reccomend you stay away unless you're excited for the level editor that's soon coming and want to play community creations.","hours":14.3,"funny_percent":0.125,"helpful_percent":0.8645833333333334}
{"review":"Best peek-a-boo simulator out there","hours":10.1,"funny_percent":1.0683229813664596,"helpful_percent":0.7701863354037267}
{"review":"Bro Tip: Don't scratch your nose while playing this game","hours":8.1,"funny_percent":0.9662921348314607,"helpful_percent":0.8426966292134831}
{"review":"I did not see that window. 10/10  Just gave this game a nomination for the \"unhealthy bloodlust fuel\" steam award, partialy to complete the action and partially because its true.","hours":14.7,"funny_percent":1.3131868131868132,"helpful_percent":0.7417582417582418}
{"review":"you get to play as tommy wisaeu","hours":55.5,"funny_percent":0.9069767441860465,"helpful_percent":0.751937984496124}
{"review":"While it's fun as much as it's predecessor, the gameplay feels a bit different than the first one. If you've played the previous game and liked it then it's safe to say that this is pretty much what you've been waiting for.  Not to mention that the soundtrack is just beautiful!","hours":12.1,"funny_percent":0.044444444444444446,"helpful_percent":0.726984126984127}
{"review":"Hotline Miami 2 is a difficult game to recommend, because it's only going to appeal to a certain group of people. Not to mention, the base game has changed a decent amount since its release in March 2015. As of now, I would recommend Hotline Miami 2 to fans of the first game and twin stick shooters, but the game itself is pretty hit-and-miss.  The story of Hotline Miami 2 is polarizing, to put it lightly. You'll probably have a different opinion on it than any of the critics or players you find after finishing the game. I've got mixed feelings on it. Its structure, where you play as characters before and after the events of the first game and an overall plot slowly forms, is really innovative and allows for some cool set pieces. However, due to the narrative being split between a dozen or so characters, there isn't much in the way of development or growth for anyone, so it's hard to feel connected to your character before he or she gets their brains blasted out.  The gameplay has improvements over the first game and questionable changes. Guns are now more viable and frequent, and every bullet will deal a one-hit kill to regular enemies instead of the RNG of the first game. There are more factions to fight and more weapons to choose from (though not everything from Hotline Miami 1 makes a return). Unfortunately, melee weapons got a severe nerf. For some reasons, melee swings are much slower, and most executions are drastically slower than in the first game. Expect to die frequently because you executed an enemy while another wandered into the room. You'll be desperately mashing the attack button and getting killed often, aside from a few fast executions for certain characters.  The soundtrack is fantastic. Regardless of how you feel about the game, you'll want to buy the soundtrack after you play through it. It's heavier and darker than the first game's, and has a more diverse selection of artists. Musicians like Perturbator and Jasper Byrne return, and newcomers like Carpenter Brut and Benny Smiles bring their own unique styles to the game.  If there's one standout reason I would recommend the game, it would be the level editor. Though it may not be perfect or even complete, the level editor allows the user to right some of the wrongs from the story's level design and create their own single levels and campaigns. With Steam Workshop and sprite modding support, one can feasibly make the Hotline Miami 3 of their own desires. Or, if you don't take it too seriously, you can create comedic levels with rapid-fire dialogue and intentionally-crappy designs.  The degree to which I would recommend this game depends on how much you liked the original. If you thought it was alright, I would skip Hotline Miami 2. If you liked it and wanted more, I would recommend buying this on sale and skipping over to the level editor once the story mode becomes unbearable. If you honestly, truly loved the first game and analyzed every detail of it, I would suggest buying it at full price and plowing through the complete story. At the very least, the final level's spectacular presentation and attention to detail make up for the lackluster fifth and sixth acts of the game.","hours":814,"funny_percent":0.05,"helpful_percent":0.9333333333333333}
{"review":"Did you love Hotline Miami?  THEN YOU WILL LOVE HOTLINE MIAMI 2, NO DOUBT ABOUT IT. Ignore all the reviews, especially the terrible PC Gamer review. You know whether you enjoyed Hotline Miami. If you did, you will enjoy this game. It's that simple.  Did you HATE Hotline Miami? Did it infuriate you? You couldn't handle dying over and over? GUESS WHAT. You'll hate this game, too.","hours":11.9,"funny_percent":0.14163090128755365,"helpful_percent":0.721030042918455}
{"review":"Reasons why this is one of my all time favorite games ____________________________________  1) Sick soundtrack (I listen to it pretty much everyday)  2) Awesome story 3) The take downs  4) The pixelated graphics 5) Hard mode 9/10","hours":93.2,"funny_percent":0.046153846153846156,"helpful_percent":0.8769230769230769}
{"review":"One word for each aspect of this game.  Story - Ambiguous. Characters - Interesting. Gameplay - Amazing. Immersion - Engrossing. Environment - Stimulating. Graphics - Classy. Sound - Awesome. Music - Godlike.  Overall - Invigorating.","hours":18.7,"funny_percent":0.027777777777777776,"helpful_percent":0.8333333333333334}
{"review":"drug induced murder 2: good soundtrack  techno/10","hours":30.9,"funny_percent":0.6428571428571429,"helpful_percent":0.7755102040816326}
{"review":"Sike... THAT'S THE WRONG NUMBER","hours":9.5,"funny_percent":1.393162393162393,"helpful_percent":0.7521367521367521}
{"review":"If sex on drugs was a video game. 10/10","hours":7.2,"funny_percent":0.7354260089686099,"helpful_percent":0.6591928251121076}
{"review":"Glass and offscreen enemies: The game.","hours":7.4,"funny_percent":0.7894736842105263,"helpful_percent":0.7105263157894737}
{"review":"Awesome Game, Very recommended. HM2 is more on the hardcore side. HM1 is more on the arcade side. It's really hard to choose between the 1st one and the 2nd one. Both are awesome btw","hours":12.5,"funny_percent":0.02702702702702703,"helpful_percent":0.7972972972972973}
{"review":"So, I loved Hotline Miami, and I'm not too good at writing reviews, so here's a list. Pros: +Good Music +Decent Gameplay +Interesting Concept (but no play the first game to get a better understanding seriously)  Cons: -The first game had cones of vision (Not visible but you knew they were there), they have AoE sight -Difficult because of that reason -Enemies can go out of the room they were spawned in, making it very difficult to pass them  OVERALL: p gud 6/10","hours":5.4,"funny_percent":0.0425531914893617,"helpful_percent":0.9148936170212766}
{"review":"Let's do 10 push-ups for every death. Eventually, too much upper muscle and unable to walk due to weak legs inadequate to support the muscle weight. From then, get around with arms. After some leg days, become Johnny Bravo. ","hours":7.7,"funny_percent":1.293103448275862,"helpful_percent":0.7413793103448276}
{"review":"A few days ago, I started to play Hotline Miami, it was an amazing experience and I was looking forward to the second game.  First impressions were pretty good. HM2 is more colorful, visually improved, added some weather effects, breakable objects and more gore + more variety in level design.   But then I encountered a \"thing\" that I didn't experience in the first game. This \"thing\" is called - f*cking game breaking bug. It's not a big deal if you get it on the first level, but when you are on a mission that takes 20-30 minutes to complete - it really leaves a bad taste. There is always a possibility to get teleported outside of the house when you use the stairs. Once I teleported into some kind of a fence and couldn't move my character anymore. Had to restart the mission. Sometimes you can shoot enemies through walls, which should not be possible. Sometimes dogs get stuck and start to whirl like tornadoes. There are a lot of similar visual and pathfinding bugs throughout the game.  I really dislike that there is no indicator where to go when you complete a level. You mostly have to backtrack using your own memory.  HM2 has far less masks, but it has more unique characters with unique abilities, so it evens out a little bit.  I feel that the core gameplay has slightly regressed. Item variation has decreased. Mission maps got bigger and longer. Sometimes you need only 2-4 minutes to complete a level, other times it can take 20-30 minutes. I think that the first Hotline Miami did a better job with level design. It was visually less varied, but just felt better and was more fun to replay them.  HM2 has an unique storytelling. It feels inconsistent, disjointed and doesn't make sense up until the very last missions. Most of the time you are in a \"WTF?\" state. I kinda liked it and disliked it at the same time.  Overall, I think that the first HM game was more straightforward, more concentrated and more polished, but that doesn't mean that HM2 is a bad game. It's still very good, but could have been a little bit better.  Oh and you can create levels with the level editor! Pretty neat.","hours":18.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Instead of saying a giant essay , heres my humble oppinion  + The story is Connect-the-dots, and it does everything needed to finish and compleat the lore + Each character is interesting in its own right, by gameplay or story + The soundtrack is ear porn. Nuff said + The game is Super Hard. And theres even a harder difficulty + The levels are made to fit the mood. Fast paced as Fans, slow and tactical as soldier and so on + The upcoming level editor will give us more than enough to smash R  - Some levels are overwhelming or have a bit too much open areas or windows - The ending dosent make sense at first - A few bugs  EDIT;  The special edition comes with a set of remixes and a Playable Character for the game PAYDAY 2.  All the remixes are AMAZING , and the Jacket character in Payday 2 is super cool. And besides , it makes the HotlineMiami heist bombastical","hours":116.2,"funny_percent":0.13740458015267176,"helpful_percent":0.7251908396946565}
{"review":"In life, you live and learn. In Hotline Miami, you die and learn.  Story: EPIC Music: DOPE  11/10 would die in-game again.","hours":57.4,"funny_percent":0.4014084507042254,"helpful_percent":0.7112676056338029}
{"review":"The only game that makes you hate windows!","hours":67.6,"funny_percent":0.7786259541984732,"helpful_percent":0.7099236641221374}
{"review":"♥♥♥♥ing incredible game, one of the only games that are still able to give me goosebumps.","hours":77.2,"funny_percent":0.17307692307692307,"helpful_percent":0.8461538461538461}
{"review":"In Hotline Miami 2 you get to play as:  A fat guy who wears a pig mask A gang of lowlifes who raid other lowlifes while wearing varied animal masks A zebra-masked hispanic female who can roll, and usually dies afterwards A tiger-masked burly man who doesn't like to pick things up Two goose siblings who rely on eachother A caped goose woman who swings a chainsaw around A goose male who only likes firearms A bear-masked fat guy with \"firepower\" A detective who rolls of steam by raiding gang and mob hideouts, he also has thick skin A fat redneck who has a snake tail A pacifist writer who is obsessed with his book and disarms weapons A black guy who is apart of the russian mob An elite military soldier in WWIII who goes on to be a convience store owner A trained assasin who wears full janitorial clothing and a rat mask A leader of a russian mob who owns a katana and is a drug addict  10/10","hours":133.4,"funny_percent":0.9767441860465116,"helpful_percent":0.9069767441860465}
{"review":"PSYCH! THAT'S THE WRONG NUMBER!  YouTube™ Video: PSA from Devolver  Views: 109,729 Hotline Miami 2 Release Date announced! ","hours":10.9,"funny_percent":2.1177474402730376,"helpful_percent":0.6382252559726962}
{"review":"I recommend Hotline Miami 2. But let me start with the not so well executed parts of this game:  Space around alot of obstacles imply you could walk around them, but blocking your way with collision instead. Limited character selection in combination with the sometimes linear level design makes it frustrating to complete a stage, giving you less options to approach a level. While some characters and their abilities make it easy to go through a stage, some other loadouts can completely frustrate the player. Gladly there is a 'rewind' option.  On the other hand, the way they wrapped up the story expecially with the well selected soundtrack (once again) and the new character selection is top-notch. Makes you want to complete it twice because you didn't get the ending!  Some reviewers mind the look-further function which snaps weirdly. I agree, but must say: Use it wisely. No need to downgrade due to a minor detail that you can surely work-around to enjoy the game.  They added a new snap function, which allows you to snap to enemies even if they are not inside your field of view. In addition I also enjoy the ability to sort of explore the character by finding out what his or her secondary ability is and how to play the character in the best possible way.  I'd also like to mention that small 'puzzle' elements, e.g. 'how do I get to this gun to kill these bodyguards?' are HIGHLY satisfying. Or picking up the only gun behind a door to mow down 7 mobsters who rush toward you shortly after. Another example is using a sniper rifle in an open level, which is amazingly satisfying as well and breaks the usual very hard gameplay up a little.  To sum up: Killing people is a simple job, but who said it will be easy? You will swear and cheer and retry. You will have your frustrating moments, and the AI is very unforgiving and fast. There is a harder difficulty as well for people who will actually see that murdering people isn't that bad.  Do I recommend it? Absolutely.  Oh, and around 50 songs used are in this game. Grab the soundtrack!","hours":11.7,"funny_percent":0.04310344827586207,"helpful_percent":0.7241379310344828}
{"review":"╔════ ೋღ☃ღೋ ════╗ ||----------------------------|| || ~~~~~~ Here lies ~~~~~-|| || ~~~~~~ my R Key~~~~~~|| ||----------------------------|| || ~~~~~ 2015 - 2015~~~~~|| ||----------------------------||  ╚════ ೋღ☃ღೋ ═════╝","hours":8.6,"funny_percent":2.514950166112957,"helpful_percent":0.6611295681063123}
{"review":"Hotline Miami 2 is a lot of fun but it's different from the first.  HLM2 is more difficult for all the wrong reasons. It's more like a realistic cover shooter rather than a reckless strategy game. The levels are far too big and enemies see you from to far away not allowing you to see them (and they change position slightly each time so you can't trail and error)  Although the game is fun and a good adrenaline rush, I still perfer the first one.","hours":2.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8863636363636364}
{"review":"Alright, let's start this game and beat some thugs! *dies* Whoops, I should look out for that guy! Ok, let's do this again. *dies* Okay...guy with a gun on the right, look out for him... *dies again* Alright, I need to act quicker this time. *dies again and again and again* Alright, I have this plan. I am gonna get in, take out the guy on the right with the bat, then scoot to the left to avoid the shotgun blast, then I will move to the next room and knock down the door next to the guy who's smoking, and take his weapon, bait the shotgunner, slice his throat open, and finish off the guy I knocked down. Let's do this! *dies again* AUGHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!! *you charge in the level, with no plan or strategy, and miraculously... \"LEVEL CLEARED, GET TO THE CAR\"  Hotline Miami 2 in a nutshell.","hours":90.1,"funny_percent":1.4166666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.9444444444444444}
{"review":"This game is a family-friendly game about talking animals. Not much else to say about it.","hours":102.3,"funny_percent":1.569767441860465,"helpful_percent":0.7441860465116279}
{"review":"Dark Souls has nothing on this game. The hard mode in HLM2 will crush your soul and leave you empty on the inside.","hours":28,"funny_percent":0.2926829268292683,"helpful_percent":0.8780487804878049}
{"review":"THE DIFFERENCES BETWEEN HOTLINE MIAMI 1 AND 2  I just beat the game so I'll try to tell you. HM2 is bloodier, and it's much harder. However, I think it's harder due to poor level design. The best way to put it is most of the levels are like the really hard floor in the chapter \"Hot & Heavy\" (you know the one). Most levels have long corridors and lots of windows, so most of the time you won't know there's an enemy till it's too late.   HM2 has a much more complex storyline, as it involves around a dozen playable characters, and I'm considering playing through it multiple times just to understand it.  My main gripe is that there is much less unlockable content in this game. HM had tons of weapons and masks that you could use on EVERY LEVEL. HM2 has around 10 unlockable masks and 3 unlockable weapons that you can use on certain levels. You could argue that the new masks are cool, quality over quantity and all that, but I think there should've been more masks.  However, whether you should buy Hotline Miami 2 all depends on ONE THING. How in-depth is the level editor? That level editor can easily make or break the game for me. Can you imagine playing a recreation of Doom, with a custom Doom Guy mask?  In conclusion, if you REALLY need more Hotline Miami, you should get this game. It's no where near as good as the first one, but it's still pretty good I guess. If you really don't want to risk your money on this, wait for the level editor to come out, and then see what people think of the level editor. It should be out sometime this spring.","hours":13.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.759493670886076}
{"review":"hotline miami 2: wrong number is a game about clearing rooms of people with eyes in the back of their heads that all just happen to qualify as sharpshooters and have the fastest reaction speed humanly possible","hours":96.3,"funny_percent":0.48484848484848486,"helpful_percent":0.9393939393939394}
{"review":"I love Hotline Miami 3!  PSYCHE  THAT'S THE WRONG NUMBA  AHIJSDGNASDOGNAOSFNGOASG       Somebody kill me..","hours":19.4,"funny_percent":1.7236842105263157,"helpful_percent":0.6447368421052632}

{"review":"I love this game. It's different, rich in story, and will make even the coldest of hearts feel emotional. First time finishing the game (before I got it on Steam) I was up at 3 in the morning bubbling like a baby when I finished  This game, although it has it's flaws, is a masterpiece. DontNod made a wonderful game and has proven that their small team can make an amazing, beautiful, heartfelt game. I paid for the 1st episode before it was released on Steam for free, but even spending a few extra dollars was worth it, as this game has taken me through the incredible and emotional journey of Max Caulfield and Chloe Price.  Pros: Beautiful indie sountrack Fun use of timetraveling powers Different (and stunning) graphics Relatable characters/situations Not afraid to talk about uncomfortable topics (assault, deaths of loved ones, suicide, ect) Most small choices still have a meaningful impact Strong replay value Many subtle refrences to shows/movies/memes  Likable characters Very atmospheric, it feels like a real town Has an unusual but nice mechanism where you can take a \"Moment of Calm\" and sit down on a bed/swing/bench, and just look at the world around you while calming music plays Beautiful locations and scenery  Cons: Voice acting/script can be cringy at times  Is short (but as stated before is replayable) Can be cliche at times  Overall this game is not one to miss. Even with it's flaws, Life is Strange is one game you shouldn't miss.","hours":19.3,"funny_percent":0.011458333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.9708333333333333}
{"review":"I wish I could rewind and play this game for the first time again.","hours":20.7,"funny_percent":0.2855099413531684,"helpful_percent":0.9507938778429409}
{"review":"Nominated for 'I'm not crying, there's something in my eye' award.","hours":18.2,"funny_percent":0.15009940357852883,"helpful_percent":0.9259443339960238}
{"review":"It's strange how this will be the first review I ever write for a game. I always thought it would be written for a game like Fallout, Elderscrolls or some huge open world survival horror. And yet it's this little piece of art that has me aching to write something, if only for a minute. When I had finished this, a few minutes ago, I couldn't believe that they only charge a pittence for it. I thought to myself that if people can charge you 70 euro for games that are poorly executed and badly made from start to finish, then this game should have a much higher pricetag. It wasn't before looking up and seeing that I just finished the first episode in a mere three hours that I understood their reasoning. I feel, however, obliged to tell you all that the three hours spent in this game were worth more to me than the hundreads of hours I've spent in most other games combined. Not because the story was awsome, or the graphics made me gape in awe, but rather that every single aspect of the game in combination managed to grip me and pull me in so that time became temporarily meaningless. Imagine if games held this standard. Imagine if your favorite action, your favorite adventure game or even your favorite driver had this kind of execution.  You can tell a good story in a bad way, and you can tell a bad story in a good way. The story in this game might not be the most interesting story you've ever heard, but it's good, and in the execution of it you are drawn in, captured by it, moved by it.  Most adventure games will entertain, they'll give you some ups and downs along the way, but ultimately they will feel like games. I've never felt so fulfilled after \"playing a game\" as I did today. Original, beautiful and masterfully executed. I can't wait for the next episode.","hours":27.1,"funny_percent":0.03117692907248636,"helpful_percent":0.9545336451026241}
{"review":"When you water your plant and it says \"This action will have consequenses\", you know sh** just got real.","hours":24.2,"funny_percent":2.4903442485306466,"helpful_percent":0.904841869577386}
{"review":"But buying it... that's not the hard part. It's letting go.","hours":17.5,"funny_percent":0.19742489270386265,"helpful_percent":0.9081545064377683}
{"review":"This game is a moral self-torture simulator... Steps for successfully experiencing LiS:  1. Buy it. 2. Begin to play it. 3. Make poor choices. 4. Alter poor choices. 5. Realise new choices are worse.  6. Eventually stumble to the end feeling like you've almost held it together.  7. Make monumentally poor choice.  8. Open the bottle of Jack Daniels you keep by your desk.  9. Begin drunken reflection on reality. 10. Remember why you failed Philosophy. 11. Drink some more. 12. Ponder if this game has set an impossible bar for videogame storytelling. 13. Conclude it has. 14. Decide to write negative review of game because it made you feel sad.  15. Change it to positive BECAUSE it managed to make you feel sad.  16. Begin the slightly hollow search for something that can offer a similar experience. ","hours":16.7,"funny_percent":0.47504621072088726,"helpful_percent":0.9510166358595195}
{"review":"I bought this game for £5. I now realise it is worth so much more; how I missed this game for two years I don't know, I'm glad I finally got around to playing it; I haven't felt like this in a long time after playing a game, a completely lifechanging experience.   Life is Strange is slightly similar to games of the Telltale series, your choices affect the outcome of the game and make subtle and huge changes throughout. You feel empathy for the characters in the world, and whilst handling mature themes such as depression, the game grips you to your seat. It is amazing! A masterpiece. The writers are on par with some of the best TV shows and films out there, it makes you question every choice you make, your own reality. As a player you actually feel like you affect the relationships between the characters.  The music and art design are unique and aesthetically pleasing, which is a nice change from the usual games I play. The voice acting's brilliant, the lip synchronization is not so much, but it is not awful.  Without spoiling anything, the twists in this game, WOW. I can see why this game has critical acclaim.  Finally I must end saying how much I recommend this game. I've experienced nothing like it before, if you read this. Please try this game. You won't regret it.","hours":12.7,"funny_percent":0.004415011037527594,"helpful_percent":0.9459161147902869}
{"review":"This is probably the realest review for a game I will ever do... Coming from a guy who never shows emotions, has been gaming for a good 12 years and has mainly been playing horror, FPS, and MMOs those twelve years...  I both see and feel why this game has a warning about support groups for real life... This game guilt-trips you so hard and then kicks your emotions around like it's a soccer ball...  I haven't had this much of an emotional roller coaster in, well... ever. I've never had a video game make me tear up before... Life Is Strange changed that.  Easily my \"Game Of The Year\". I know a lot of triple-a titles came out this year, and I know Life Is Strange doesn't get as much attention as other game... but holy hell you guys. I've never played a game with such an in-depth story as I have with Life Is Strange... Hell, I've NEVER even played a game that kept me up all night, wondering about what the next episode will be, or how my actions in the last episode might impact me...  This is a game that I will never forget, and it is most likely a game that I will always come back to.    Now, for those of you that are thinking \"ah, ♥♥♥♥ this game. It's a story-based game, it's practically a virtual novel! Who cares!\"... Take this from someone who was \"that guy\", and said almost exactly that before trying this game... You will not regret buying this game. I promise.","hours":35.8,"funny_percent":0.0395799676898223,"helpful_percent":0.9410339256865913}
{"review":"Life is Strange isn't hard, yet it hits you hard. Life is Strange isn't challenging, yet it shows daily challenges. Life is Strange isn't long, yet its impact lasts long. Life is Strange isn't a puzzle, yet it leaves you puzzled. Life is Strange isn't giving questions, yet it offers answers. Life is Strange isn't replayable, yet finds in the replay its core. Life is Strange isn't real, yet it feels so. Life is Strange isn't about relationship, friensdhip, love, hate, light or darkness. It's about the most underestimated gift: life.  I am unable to call it \"game\" as it would lose all the artistic veil surrounding Arcadia Bay. Art is something you perceive, it is something that comes out of the blue without a reason or a purpose. Art is something you can perceive in every step Max takes, and this is how I would label Life is Strange: art. Dontnod has made a terrific job and gives us lessons that we can easily detatch from this title and apply it in our everyday life. All the serious themes covered in such a little time amount made me understand the reason why the developers have opened a support group for those who felt really affected by some of them.  And perhaps the core of this experience is simple and complicated at the same time: Life is hard, life is challenging, life is short, life is puzzling, life is uncertain, life is one only, life is strange. But life..is life.","hours":16.5,"funny_percent":0.05502846299810247,"helpful_percent":0.9240986717267552}
{"review":"They didn't mention this game came with 50 free tickets to the \"Feels Train\".... God dammit...","hours":23.2,"funny_percent":0.7239082161361954,"helpful_percent":0.9030347890451518}
{"review":"I never rate a game...I'm a 29 year old man who just streamed this game for a full 11 hours. I have tears in my eyes. Thank you.","hours":11.2,"funny_percent":0.116991643454039,"helpful_percent":0.9331476323119777}
{"review":"Damn, I have never felt so emotionally attached to a game before.  10/10 Story  10/10 Characters 10/10 Music 10/10 Game 10/10 Would play again  Game of the Year for me.","hours":16.1,"funny_percent":0.04297994269340974,"helpful_percent":0.9312320916905444}
{"review":"Step 1: Try to make good decisions Step 2: ♥♥♥♥ everything up Step 3: Try to fix everything you've screwed up Step 4: End up ♥♥♥♥ing everything up even worse  10/10 Best real life simulator I've ever played","hours":19.5,"funny_percent":1.034608378870674,"helpful_percent":0.8961748633879781}
{"review":"\"WHAT THE♥♥♥♥♥♥JUST HAPPENED?!\"  -me after every episode  10/10","hours":44.5,"funny_percent":0.49479528105482307,"helpful_percent":0.8563497571131159}
{"review":"Episode 1: typical teen school drama  Episode 2: uhmmm.... wha..?  Episode 3: What. The. Hell.  Episode 4: WHAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAAA?!  Episode 5: I'm... Sorry.    On a slightly more serious note: I cannot thank you enough, Dontnod. GOTY.","hours":28.1,"funny_percent":0.5908629441624366,"helpful_percent":0.883756345177665}
{"review":"This game deserves a love letter, not a review. So here it goes..  Dear Lis,  Ever since you showed up, you’ve caught everyone’s attention. Although not mine, at least not until I kept hearing your name and seeing your pictures everywhere. Everyone talking about your beauty, perfection, mystery and how interesting you were. Boys and girls, all were in love with Lis. Which made me very intrigued. So I watched you closely but I kept a distance, because you were not even my type. I can’t deny it, sometimes I was attracted to you and wanted to approach you. But sadly I didn’t have money on me, so I couldn’t. So I accepted fate, and kept my distance.  Until one day, I had enough money. But I wasn’t sure anymore if I wanted you or not. I wasn’t sure if you would even notice me among all these 75 million users. I was just a nobody. I thought of other options, but for some reason, my heart preferred you. I don’t know why or what it was. But I knew you were the one. Among thousands of other choices, I chose you Lis... I think it was destiny. Do you believe in destiny Lis?  I still remember our first date. I waited for you for so long. Was a bad internet day. Then you finally came. I‘ve never been so excited to see someone this much before. And for some reason, something about you moved me. I felt this incredible strong connection between us. I felt ridiculously relaxed, comfortable, confident and very interested in you. We started getting to know each other, and you kept me even more and more interested in you. The date ended fast, even though it wasn’t really. It’s just that you made time travel faster than light. I hated it when you had to go. You promised me of another date, and that’s what kept me going.  The date was there, you looked even more beautiful than ever. Was another perfect day we had together. Until you touched me in a way, I couldn’t understand or know what to feel or think. Caught me off guard, surprised me. It was.. so good! Too good! But sadly you had to go. You left and left me with this fire burning inside me. So many questions, mixed emotions.. I didn’t know what was happening to me! So many questions going through my head. I wanted answers but I had to wait for the next time I see you. I was quiet the whole time, listening to you, melting with you, flying with you. You even brought tears into my eyes. It was a flawless experience. All my worries faded away and I was happy again. Then it was your time to leave, again.. but before you did, you rocked my world!! You left me again with all these emotions and questions. What were you doing to me Lis!!? These feelings, never felt anything like them before, ever! What happened on our last meeting has been on my mind since you left. You were all I could think of. Waiting for our next meeting was the most intense feeling and important thing in my life at that point. But you were late Lis.. again.. I was scared, afraid that you changed your mind about me. That, you didn’t want me anymore. Until one day you said, October 20th you’ll be there. I smiled so wide until you said it was going to be our last time. It crushed me. Flipped my whole world upside down. I didn’t feel like doing anything anymore. You kept me up everynight. I’d roll over again and again. Hearing your name and seeing your pictures in my head. Remembering the things you made me feel. I had hopes that I might be able to change your mind and make you stay.   October 20th came. I was both excited and scared. I couldn’t see you. I’m so sorry Lis, I avoided you, stayed away from the feed. It hurt but I had to. Everyone was still talking about you, but it was only making me more furious.. But I knew I couldn’t hide from you forever, besides you were leaving me for good. So I needed to at least say goodbye.  October 21st. Which is today.. I waited for you. Again was another bad internet day. Then you showed up. My heart was beating so fast I almost fainted. I was so happy to see you again after so long, but at the same time, all those questions and emotions came back all at once. I wasn’t ready for it. It kept messing with my head the whole time. Taking me on this roller coaster of heightened emotions. Unanswered questions. You were vague yourself. You drove me crazy Lis. I had no clue what was happening. I was losing my mind and pulling my hair out. I was both scared and sad and happy and all at once. You’re doing it to me again Lis. Then when it was time for you to go, you just.. made me make the hardest decision of my life. I literally froze for 10 minutes. I didn’t know what to choose. I cared so much, it was so hard for me choose. But it didn’t matter after all, because whatever decision I was going to make, it wasn’t going to make you stay. So I chose. Tears started falling down one by one at the last sight of your beauty. The last time I hear your heavenly voice. The last time we laugh together, explore together, get mad together, get scared together, see the world together, and be happy… together…  Why Lis! How could you do this! I thought you were the one. I opened myself to you. We been through so much together! We changed past, present and future together! We created wonders! Put smiles on people’s faces! We made magic. It was all perfect. Then you just left me alone, sobbing, crying, screaming and bleeding love for you.  What I’m trying to say is that, I’m sitting here right now, writing this letter for you in my Asylum cell where I’m getting treated from the mind ♥♥♥♥s and emotions you put me through, that all the choices we made, all the memes we made, all the ships we fought for, all the music we heard, secrets we discovered, emotions we felt, tears we shed... will all remain. They will always stay dear in my heart and I will always love you...  Yours truly. Venus","hours":25.6,"funny_percent":0.43288434742220155,"helpful_percent":0.8880631676730144}
{"review":"So, i finished the finale, and i was like, \"what the ♥♥♥♥?! what the ♥♥♥♥ing ♥♥♥♥ is happening?!\" And, yeah, ♥♥♥♥s that the dev trying to get me make me complety ♥♥♥♥ed Dev did a good job, kudos (y) Life is Strange is a masterpiece, people should try this game at least the first episode Forget about the teen drama, this game is not all about it, it's all about how you see future, past, and present time, every action has reaction, and most important thing that you can't fix everything   ~ [my ep 1 experience so far review] This game is so relaxing, i like to play it for another couple of hours just to see Max sitting under the tree, it makes me think about my strange life too :p Things that i like about this game : + Nice hand-drawn graphic + Great music that follows your current mood + Interesting story, can't wait for next episode! A must buy 2015 game!  ~ So people asking about my \"relaxing\" part of my review Maybe i should edit this The relaxing part of this game maybe just for ep 1, when you advance playing to ep 2 and ep 3, it's the thrilling part, sad and happy and confuse and anger at once because you'll meet new characters, know the facts about your missing friend, or new environment (maybe?) It's a rollercoaster feel when playing this game. And still... i recommend you to feel the rollercoaster feel of this game.","hours":62.9,"funny_percent":0.0782608695652174,"helpful_percent":0.8980237154150198}
{"review":"I never write reviews. I never like games that aren't fast paced. I am a 21 year old male. This is one of the best games I have played in my entire life.  11 out of ♥♥♥♥ing 10. I bought all of the episodes and cannot wait until they come out. There shouldn't be a single person with a PC who does not own this game.","hours":18,"funny_percent":0.10869565217391304,"helpful_percent":0.8615942028985507}
{"review":"After Episode 4... jeez. This isn't just about a quirky girl getting fun time travel powers and solving a mystery with her punk sidekick anymore.  Brooke likes warren But Warren likes Max Max likes Chloe But Chloe likes Rachel Rachel likes Frank BUT FRANK LIKES BEANS","hours":55.4,"funny_percent":2.082490272373541,"helpful_percent":0.8439688715953307}
{"review":"My game of the year for 2015  Pros:  + Stunning story + Lovely graphics + Lovable characters + Great for screenshots + Choices are effective and testing + Great soundtrack, and very fitting + Has achievements and trading cards + Good implementation of choices matter + 5 episodes, all of which are gripping and lengthy  + They added developers commentary for free (it's dlc on the store page, just scroll back up) + Emotional, immersive and at some points heartbreaking, especially surrounding the choices with Kate and the final choice of the series.  Neutral Points:  > Has been some bugs in rare occassions but easily overlooked due to being such a great game  Cons:  - It ends - Max's clothing, I prefer her in Amber's clothes - Some choices don't have a big enough of an impact in the game - It can be argued that no choices mattered in the end, not going to spoil anything though  Download Size: 11542mb Trading cards: 6 in the set Achievement Difficulty: Easy to 100% Hours to 100%: 15-20  Rating: 10/10 Recommendation: A must buy!  My Opinion:  Despite the final choices and how it ends I am very content with the game as a whole and the build up, as well as the final outcome. It is a rollercoaster ride of emotions, hard choices and relatable characters. For me personally I got to re live a better school experience as a younger me while having time changing super powers. This is by far my favorite and best game choice of 2015, it was worth every penny and will always be a game etched into my memory.  For those who can't find the option to purchase the rest of the episodes: http://store.steampowered.com/sub/56692 (now fixed I am sure)  Nominated for 'I'm not crying, there's something in my eye' award. It deserves it!","hours":1610.4,"funny_percent":0.07832167832167833,"helpful_percent":0.8769230769230769}
{"review":"When they say that choices matter,  Unlike Telltale,  THEY ACTUALLY MATTER!  EDIT: I don't hate Telltale Games, in fact, I like their games.","hours":16.2,"funny_percent":0.3024662633783155,"helpful_percent":0.845974872033504}
{"review":"One of the most incredible, intense, and emotional fictional experiences available in any medium. Words can't do it justice.","hours":465.8,"funny_percent":0.022123893805309734,"helpful_percent":0.9026548672566371}
{"review":"- Pretty Graphics - An amazing story - Conditions that can be selected - A memorable (ost) - The game I want to play again.  ","hours":15.6,"funny_percent":0.019559902200488997,"helpful_percent":0.9095354523227384}
{"review":"Bacon omelette or Belgian waffle?  Choose wisely... 10/10","hours":20.1,"funny_percent":1.6655405405405406,"helpful_percent":0.8391891891891892}
{"review":"Episode 1 - Well this is a nice little game isn't it Episode 2 - MY EMOTIONS Episode 3 - I WAS NOT EXPECTING THIS Episode 4 - WHY DO YOU DO THIS TO ME GAME Episode 5 - AAAAIEIOGEOPOIGDOIFOFOGF.   10/10","hours":24.3,"funny_percent":0.4107142857142857,"helpful_percent":0.9375}
{"review":"This game is freakin' amazing!  I'm a 30 year old bearded buff dude, and the story made me cry several times!  But seriously, everyone should try this game, I recommend it 10/10 !!","hours":17.3,"funny_percent":0.3102409638554217,"helpful_percent":0.8478915662650602}
{"review":"Ep 1- :D  Ep 2- :)  Ep 3- D:  Ep 4- DDDDDDDDD:  Ep 5- DUUUUUUUUUUDE WHAT THE ♥♥♥♥KKKKK WHAT THE FUUUUUUUUUUUUUUDGE, CANT EVEN EMOJI THIS WHAT THE FREAKITY FRACK, OHMYGOODNESS JUST GO PLAY CANDY CRUSH AND SAVE YOURSELF THE PAIN.  You either feel :D or DDDDD: there is no :/  This game has no chill. Episode 1 is a trap.","hours":44.7,"funny_percent":0.7338952438290187,"helpful_percent":0.8410596026490066}
{"review":"To not give this game a review would simply be an injustice, considering how deeply this game affected me and how genuinely thought-provoking it was.   I've played many episodic games but I don't think I can say there was one that made me pause the game several times, process what just happened, and then come back to it after a few hours. To say this game's perfect would be a lie, it's got faults like any other game, but where its strengths lie are in its ability to create a universe the player is incredibly invested in. I could rattle on and on like my usual Steam reviews but for this game only, and to avoid spoiling the story in any way, I've decided just to make a simple pros and cons list.  PROS - $20 price for the season pass - Performance was good and there was very few bugs for me - I really dug the unique art style (simple yet visually appealing) - The UI is intuitive and very simple - A solid story from start to finish (there might've been a few plot holes but I didn't notice any really) - Likeable female protagonist and a well-written relationship between her and the deuteragonist - Amazing atmosphere - Great voice talent (I think a few voices didn't feel \"right\" but everyone else was golden) - The song selection was fitting and appropriate - Different endings which were logical and nicely executed, to me, for a story that involves time travel (one ending could've been longer though and I suspect many fans might've preferred something less predictable) - Real choices that matter early on - The rewind mechanic wasn't gimmicky for the most part and I rather enjoyed all of the puzzles - The player doesn't take a backseat to the action like a lot of story games I felt (you feel like you're playing a game) - A lot of extra content in the episodes (various diary entires, optional photos to take, SMS messages, etc.) - Explores a number of controversial issues and/or themes (that few games touch on) with tact  CONS - The pacing could've been slightly better in episodes 3 and 4 - Past choices don't matter as much in episodes 4 and 5 (I won't describe anything more to avoid spoiling the story) - Some characters are more or less stereotypes but each player will feel differently about this - The rare corny/cheesy phrase that would stick out (I can't think of an example right now)  I was initially going to include another con but yesterday's update addressed what was the biggest issue for many: the at-times horrible lip-syncing that barely matched the characters' words in the first 3 episodes. I'm glad to say that this has been addressed and I have to give the devs kudos for that. Now fans and newcomers alike will be able to enjoy this game even more.   This game will obviously not be for everyone but I do think it appeals to a lot of people (as seen by the Steam user reviews). It's quite simply a high school drama with a bit of mystery and the supernatural thrown in. If you had thought it was some feministic sort of game like I had initially - I urge you to give this game another look. I have tried to be as honest as I can about a game which I have thoroughly enjoyed and I hope this review has helped you, the reader, in some way. For $20 I highly recommend grabbing Life Is Strange and if you don't happen to enjoy it in the first hour or so: refund it. I don't think you will though :) It honestly deserves a 8.5/10 in my book.    P.S. If you like these reviews and want to see more of the same, you're more than welcome to follow my curator page. If you don't like curators or groups, I completely understand (I'm not a big fan either). It's just a much easier way to find old and new reviews I've made: http://steamcommunity.com/groups/rblc#curation","hours":29.1,"funny_percent":0.024,"helpful_percent":0.8906666666666667}
{"review":"Episode 1: Dialogue is pretty poorly written.   Episode 2: OK, this just got a little too real for me.   Episode 3: WHAT IS HAPPENING  Episode 4: How can we abide so much suffering and malice to exist, and how can we not actively seek justice to right the wrongs and make the ugly things beautiful again? This was an eye-opening and terrifying experience, but such an important one. I legitimately feel that I am a more well-rounded and complete person. Literally kept me up at night while I prayed for the broken world.   Episode 5: (silently sobbing)  it's pretty neat","hours":15.2,"funny_percent":0.3497536945812808,"helpful_percent":0.9507389162561576}
{"review":"DONT PLAY PAST EPISODE 3 INFACT JUST GO BACK TO EPISODE 2 OR 1 - EPISODE 4 IS NOT WHERE YOU WANT TO BE RIGHT NOW GUYS.   UPDATE 21/10/2015 EPISODE 5 REVIEW:  NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPENOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPENOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPENOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPENOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPENOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPENOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPENOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPENOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPENOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPENOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE NOPE.   (in all seriousness this game <3 i have been playing since January, i have played it through my first 6 months outside of highschool and between the time of January - october, this game and its fandom have in ways shapped and inspired me, it is a unique feeling to be apart of a fandom that has so much love for this game and it has been a plesure and a powerfull emotional rollercoaster, getting to know Max, and Chloe, in Life is Strange. GAME OF THE YEAR 2015)","hours":30.8,"funny_percent":0.4709051724137931,"helpful_percent":0.8318965517241379}
{"review":">In English exam > It's hella important >One problem >Can't stop thinking about this game >3rd episode messed me up big time >maxcaulfeel.png >Struggling through the exam  >Finally get to last question >\"Write a feature article about the use of selfies\" >Holy maxaroni and cheese >This is my calling >The first action you do in this game is take a selfie >The photo the main character wanted to enter in a huge contest was a selfie >I'm not entirely convinced she isn't a pile of polariod selfies that somehow came to life  >I write down all the stuff I learned from this game >\"Louis Daguerre was a french painter who invented 'daguerreotypes' in 1830\" >\"Alfred Hitchcock once called film 'little pieces of time', this could also be said about photography\" >I even used the 'selfie-expression' line >SELFIE EXPRESSION  >mrw I might actually pass the exam because of a video game >mrw I considered putting off Life is Strange until the exams were over >mrw this is probs the best game of 2015 so far >8.5/10 IGN too much selfies  EDIT: I got 20/25 for the question and 73% overall I'd like to thank Life is Strange, all the shaka brahs out there, and Chloe Price for existing.","hours":36.1,"funny_percent":1.0657894736842106,"helpful_percent":0.8596491228070176}
{"review":"Step one: Lie down. Step two: Try not to cry. Step three: Cry a lot.","hours":15.5,"funny_percent":0.5988700564971752,"helpful_percent":0.8813559322033898}
{"review":"I am a grown man. This made me cry like a litte girl. Buy this once in a lifetime experience. Now.","hours":4.5,"funny_percent":0.07908163265306123,"helpful_percent":0.8647959183673469}
{"review":"Female version of the butterfly effect with Ashton Kutcher.  But with better acting, storyline, directing, screen play, production...  This is the best non Ashton version of a game ever. 10/10","hours":27.1,"funny_percent":0.9574193548387097,"helpful_percent":0.8206451612903226}
{"review":"+ Interesting story and characters + Beautiful hand-painted visuals + A soundtrack that makes you feel good + Rewind the time and try something different + Explore what feels like a world that could exist - Bad lip sync  A fresh and immersive game with a truly unique atmosphere. It lets you relax and have a good time. I can't wait for more.","hours":21.6,"funny_percent":0.04,"helpful_percent":0.9244444444444444}
{"review":"Overall Score: 9.2 / 10  Quality\t9.7/10\tHigh quality game Performance\t10/10\tRuns smoothly on high settings; Low system requirements Utility\t10/10\tNo bugs experienced; Supports steam cloud save; 1st episode is f2p Controls\t9/10\tGood, but mainly interactive spots (like point n click); Full pad support Gameplay\t8.8/10\tA story-driven adventure about time manipulation Challenge\t8/10\tNo hard, but smartly designed puzzles; Well hidden \"secrets\"/ photos Content\t9/10\t16h+ story; Replay value: Tons of story-changing decisions Diversity\t9/10\tMany cool plot twists; No episode has the same feel to it Immersion\t9/10\tGreat atmosphere and a touching, mysterious story; Obtrusive HUD Design\t9.2/10\tA very consistent style and well polished overall Visuals\t9/10\tQuite simple but nice looking graphics; Excellent visual design Sound\t10/10\tAmazing voice actors (English), creative use of well fitting music Texts\t10/10\tComplex story; Many dialogues, interior monologues and documents Mapping\t8/10\tScripted one-way levels mostly, but designed with much love to detail Interface\t9/10\tFitting UI style; Well designed, easily operated and functional menus  Additional Notes:  📺 I recommend to use pad+couch+TV if possible to optimize the experience.   Tested with: 1920x1080; Windows 10 Home, 64-Bit AMD FX-8350, 8 x 4.03 GHz Nvidia GTX 970 (4GB) 16GB DDR3 RAM; Samsung SSD  Settings: High/Ultra  If you liked this review check out my curator page or archive and see how other games scored!","hours":28.2,"funny_percent":0.019178082191780823,"helpful_percent":0.873972602739726}
{"review":"There are only 5 or so games, films, or TV shows that have moved me as much as this game, Life Is Strange has. It is a hard feeling to deal with. The characters feel very real. You come to know many of them, and love them almost like real friends. Then the game is over, and those characters are gone. This causes a hurt inside you. Very much like losing dear friends, because there is no continuation for these characters.  This game is VERY emotional and deals with some very dark, and unfortunately very real things in our world. If you feel for other people, and nature, and the things only humans can cause, whether they are good or bad, this game might make you feel very sad at times, because it puts these things right in your face.  I cried so many times going through this game. I'm a pretty emotional person, but I think these feelings are totally intentional, and so I think the people who made this game did a damn good job. I wish to explore that world and those characters forever, because they seem that real. But, you can't. Much like the themes in this game about how little control we all have over time and events we can't foresee, this game ends and I have to find a way to move on.  The world in this game is pretty to look at. The graphics aren't amazing, but they are done in an artistic way that reminds me of watercolors or something. The gameplay is very similar to Telltale Games style, in that it is mostly walking around areas interacting with a limited number of objects, and talking to other characters. The real point of the game is the storytelling, and they do SUCH a good job in this one, as I've been over and over here.  I would recommend that if you do play it, take it slow, take long breaks if you need them. I took almost a year break and then several week breaks in between some parts, and it is still messing with me that I can't see anything more from these characters. Only replay the game again. Which, much like replaying a moment in the game with the unique rewinding power, only allows me to see that world again, and not live in it forever.  This review isn't much of a review, I know. But I don't want to reveal much and I just wanted to put my thoughts on this game out there somehow, even just to help me get through it. Thanks for reading if you do, though, and I hope you can enjoy this game that it seems to me a lot of work and love went into. :)","hours":45.7,"funny_percent":0.030973451327433628,"helpful_percent":0.9203539823008849}
{"review":"Life is Strange is a work of art. This episodic graphic adventure features characteristics resembling those of a masterpiece. The game brilliantly displays the most impacting voice acting conveying the idea that it is real. The soundtrack that the game offers soothes the mind and works with the story beautifully. Every action and every decision that the player makes has consequences and there exists nothing that is excluded. This piece leaves the player with an experience that is unforgetable, one that will surely impact the way the player thinks from after they complete the game. The game not only presents graphics uniquely with a new way of expressing visuals, but also something that seems as if it was hand-drawn. The characteristics of the plot strike the player with such force that time is required to ponder over the elements of its development. The plot clearly exemplifies signs of originality, and the impression that things are not what they seem is boldly demonstrated. In addition, the game does a solid job at developing a crucial relationship between the characters and the player, leaving the player guilty or satisfied based on their decisions made. Life is Strange is the remark of the year of 2015, boldly establishing its place as one of the best games in history. I believe everyone deserves the oppurtunity to play this work of life lessons and morals, establishing its name as a game for everyone. Life is Strange is DONTNOD Entertainment's masterpiece, and nothing less. Life is very strange.","hours":20.5,"funny_percent":0.018779342723004695,"helpful_percent":0.9248826291079812}
{"review":"December 23, 2015 A friend of mine sent me a gift code for Humble Square Enix Bundle 3. I was delighted. The Bundle had several games, such as Murdered: Soul Suspect, The Last Remnant, 3 Tomb Raiders, and the first episode for this game called Life is Strange. Not gonna lie I've been trying to get my hands on this game for a while but I always ended up buying other games (oh, I wish I could go back in time to buy Life is Strange, instead of those games).  December 24, 2015 Oh, What the hell!? I'm gonna buy the rest of the episodes for Life is Strange. I don't care, it's Christmas Eve. It's a little gift from me to myself. I can't wait for the holidays to pass so I can finally start to play this game.  December 25, 2015 Alright, the time has come. The time to start this epic journey, hopefully, alongside with Max and Chloe. It's been so long since I first saw this game on the store, and yet I don't really know what to expect from this game. Like at all. I don't know what the story is about. Time to play it, finally!  December 26, 2015 Today I played the first and the second episode of Life is Strange, and oh man, now I really wish I would have bought this game earlier, instead of all those other games. The story just started and I already feel such a strong connection to the characters. I don't think that any other game made me feel like this. Better continue this story, I'm so intrigued about what's gonna happen next. Can't wait to play it. P.S.: Always go with Eggs and Bacon!  December 27, 2015 Holy Crap.. This game is getting tougher and tougher, emotionally speaking. What the hell is going on? Today I only could finish the 3rd Episode, and I can ensure you this is getting darker and darker. I'm at the point where the decisions are getting harder and they start to have a great weight on the story. Although I know Max can fix this situation, that ending just left me heartbroken. I haven't even finished the game yet and I can't stop thinking about it. Goddamn it.  December 28, 2015 I lacked courage and strenght to go through these last episodes, call me whatever you want, but this game took a toll on me. When I finally did it, I can say that I have never felt like this before. I think the correct word is desolated, yeah, I feel desolated.  The story is absolutely beautiful, it has many twists, and the characters are so well developed that you can easily create special bonds with almost everyone. Graphically the game is beautiful as well, take your time to appreciate the little details. Obviously I will not spoil you, but be aware, this game has no good ending. It has a bad ending and a worse ending. I took the ending, that I consider to be the bad ending (morally speaking), and it doesn't make me feel that bad. Afterall, friends are for life, right?  December 30, 2015 Two days have passed since I finished the game, and I still can't stop thinking about it. Sometimes I find myself reading Max's diary, and looking at screenshots and artwork of the game.  I have to play it a second time to complete it, but it's still to soon, I have to recover first. I can't make Max go through all that again. I had no idea that a game could make such impact on a person. This is one of my favorite games and I recommend everyone to play it. Jesus ♥♥♥♥ing christ, life is indeed strange 10/10","hours":50,"funny_percent":0.09239130434782608,"helpful_percent":0.9402173913043478}
{"review":"Life Is Strange? more like feels simulator 2015","hours":15.3,"funny_percent":0.7122302158273381,"helpful_percent":0.8489208633093526}
{"review":"No matter how old you are No matter how young you are  No matter how tough you are  No matter how weak you are   Tears will get you... Tears will get you ...","hours":60.2,"funny_percent":0.04316546762589928,"helpful_percent":0.8812949640287769}
{"review":"This isn't a game you can sink 200 hours in,  but the hours you sank are thousand times more rewarding than any other games.","hours":16.2,"funny_percent":0.00510204081632653,"helpful_percent":0.923469387755102}
{"review":"this game ruined my life.  can't wait for episode five.","hours":49.3,"funny_percent":0.5394190871369294,"helpful_percent":0.8340248962655602}
{"review":"how to turn an apathetic man into a hypersensitive teenage girl: the game","hours":19.5,"funny_percent":0.5813953488372093,"helpful_percent":0.936046511627907}
{"review":"Got a text from a dog calling me a ♥♥♥♥♥ and asking for snacks. 10/10","hours":14.5,"funny_percent":1.3485838779956427,"helpful_percent":0.8300653594771242}
{"review":"Interesting story - Check Characters you care about - Check Good visuals - Check Good gameplay - Check Good soundtrack - Check  Well okay, the game can get a bit too cheesy for my taste at times but that's a personal preference ...other than that I absolutely love this game !","hours":14.1,"funny_percent":0.020202020202020204,"helpful_percent":0.9040404040404041}
{"review":"This game features high school related drama from the perspective of a teenage girl. However the writing, art design, and atmosphere is done so well it will win you over. It tells a very human story while exploring the supernatural. The characters you interact with are entertaining and the story has a lot of heart to it. You are given the opportunity to make several decisions that will impact future episodes, which gives you significant input over the direction of the story. The time travel mechanic is used so well in this game as you try to solve puzzles, rewinding time to manipulate people and objects to your advantage. $5 for the first episode, well that's ok. I'm happily surprised & I can't wait for the next episode! =D","hours":19.2,"funny_percent":0.043010752688172046,"helpful_percent":0.8637992831541219}
{"review":"The correct title is:  \" Life is unfair \".    ITA:  Questa non vuole essere una recensione. Non conta, ce ne sono tantissime, anche magari più valide. Volevo solo dire che... giocando a questa Meraviglia, forse le persone potranno capire come il mercato videoludico odierno sta diventando, per la maggioranza, Spazzatura senz'anima. Spazzatura con una scadenza annuale, Spazzatura che serve soltanto a dare facile denaro ai Publisher \"soliti noti\".   Fatevi un favore: staccate, almeno per un po', il solito gioco FPS annuale, il solito Calcio annuale, il solito Assassino annuale. Recuperatelo pure dopo, se volete. Qui nessuno vi impone niente.  Permettete solo a voi stessi, giusto per una decina di ore, di capire come siete catturati nella massa media consumistica. Non state facendo videogiochi. state facendo uno scontrino.   Trovate questo Life is Strange. Trovate, provatelo.  Capirete cosa deve essere un videogioco. un'esperienza. un qualcosa che poi, mentre lo giocate, fate \"ah, cavolo. questi davvero sono appassionati. come me. in effetti anche io farei un gioco così.\"   Uscite dalla massa media. Troverete qualcosa di straordinariamente \"vostro\" ad attendervi.  .","hours":19.3,"funny_percent":0.04864864864864865,"helpful_percent":0.9081081081081082}
{"review":"Everyone has that one tv show that they realise is in some ways not very good, but which they can't help but love anyway. These guilty pleasures are successful generally not on the merit of their content, but on their ability to make you comfortable within their created world. For me, Life is Strange is the perfect example of guilty pleasure gaming.  The one part of Life is Strange that can be enjoyed guilt-free is the story. Life is Strange is the story of Max Caulfield (a photography student attending art school in her old hometown) and her childhood friend Chloe (a tough-talking punk who's shot to death in the school bathroom during the game's opening). Shocked and grief-stricken by her friend's death, Max spontaneously develops time-rewind powers and helps Chloe escape unharmed. Those powers are the central focus of Life is Strange's gameplay, letting you reverse time to test out different responses to tough decisions, or sneak into a locked room and then rewind to erase any evidence of your intrusion.   It's a simple idea that's easy to grasp and fun to experiment with, with results ranging from hilarious (when Max successfully guesses how much change Chloe has in her pockets) to horrifying (when a drug dealer gets angry and flashes a knife in Max's face). In terms of how much those decisions mean in the end, Life is Strange falls somewhere between The Walking Dead and Dragon Age - your choices do have a major impact on events that happen throughout the game and are mentioned later on, but the final decision happens the way it does no matter what. It's the framing and the conversations around it that change.  When you're not time-turning, Life is Strange plays out like many adventure games that came before it: you interact with different objects in the environment that range from plot-critical to merely decorative, and have conversations with your peers and teachers to get the full story of Arcadia Bay. It's not ground-breaking stuff, but entertaining enough, and works to consistently give the world depth and a sense that it doesn't all revolve around you.  Encompassing time travel, investigation, and the dynamics of friendship, Max’s adventures weave a fascinating multi-layered narrative. Though the setup is a touch heavy-handed in the first episode, the search for Rachel becomes a fantastic impetus for the story in later episodes, acting as a platform from which to mix in all the game’s other narrative threads.  While being able to rewind time theoretically might make your decisions feel less impactful, it actually adds a new level of thoughtfulness to an otherwise familiar choice-based system. The decisions you make are legitimately tough, often with long-term consequences that you can't see until it's too late, leaving you anxious and uncertain, regardless of Max's powers. When Chloe's stepfather slaps her across the face because he found her holding drugs, you can go back and claim they're yours, but what trouble will that cause down the road? Will he refuse to help you later when you desperately need it? In a way it helps you identify with Max even more, putting you in the same position of uncertainty she regularly finds herself in.  All of this character-building is bolstered by gorgeous art and music that give life to the game's world. Given how little you see of the actual town (the story is relegated to Blackwell Academy, Chloe's house, a diner, and some uninhabited areas out in the wilderness), making you feel a real connection to it is no small feat, and Life is Strange pulls it off gracefully. Rather than using a real-world setting for the sole purpose of contrasting with its supernatural elements, Life is Strange wants to highlight beauty in the ordinary.   Every chapter has at least one place where Max can take a break and watch the world go by, and the game pays careful attention to making even the smallest pieces of the environment feel real, from the ambient noise of the Two Whales Diner to the things Chloe's written on her bedroom posters. You get the sense that this world isn't just a backdrop for something else, but a fully-realized character of its own, and that makes the time you spend there much more fulfilling.  Of course, friendship and watching the leaves turn isn't all there is to Life is Strange: there's also a detective story, a thriller plot, and a meditation on the effects of time travel that the game tries to handle all at once. That's a lot of balls to keep in the air, and Life is Strange doesn't have the finesse to pull it off. Though its slice-of-life story is appropriately lighthearted and its mystery is replete with strong twists, the supernatural plot falls back on sci-fi clichés and brings the whole story down with it. This is especially obvious in the game's conclusion, which struggles to explain the nature of Max's powers and ultimately takes the easy route with one of the oldest tricks in the time travel book.   It takes a lot to make a game feel worthwhile when it doesn't stick the landing, but Life is Strange has a saving grace: the honesty with which it portrays the painful struggles of adolescence. Max encounters everything from cyber-bullying to suicide, from overdose to domestic abuse, and getting to see the human toll through her eyes can be hard to handle. While the plot occasionally dips into after-school-special territory, 99% of the time its handling is spot-on and deeply affecting: even if you've never seen a friend's private photos leaked onto the internet or talked to someone so beaten down by depression that they can barely speak, Life is Strange's raw sincerity still hits you where it hurts. That's part of why Max and Chloe's relationship feels so powerful, and works so well as a central pillar of the story: when they use Max's powers to sneak into the school's swimming pool after hours, or have a blow-out fight that leaves them both vulnerable, their interactions feel effortless and genuine, making them into stronger, more engaging people.  These sequences are subjective by their very nature - the psychological abuse that one person finds cheesy could be devastating to the person sitting next to them - and the game doesn't always handle them gracefully. However, these moments are less about the reality of being a teenager (some things are out of your control) and more about how it feels to be a teenager (I should have done something). In that regard Life is Strange hits it out of the park: it takes risks, talking about the transition into adulthood in a frank way that games struggle to pull off, if they try at all. And in putting its characters out there at their most vulnerable, it hits a nerve that'll still sting hours, days, weeks after you turn the game off.  There's a lot Life is Strange could have done better. It comes to a disappointing conclusion, doesn't handle all of its intense subject matter well, and ultimately falls short of its potential. Even so, with each episode, the world of Life is Strange grows on you. Your investment in the world rises, and the tonal problems become less of a barrier to enjoyment and more just quirks of this lovably flawed universe. It becomes like that soap that you need to watch; the problems quickly become secondary to your desire to find out what happens next, or your desire just to spend time with the characters.   In fact, some of the best moments of the game are Max and Chloe just hanging out. These quiet moments allow you to connect to these characters in a way rarely explored in games. So despite its issues, Life is Strange is absolutely an experience worth having. In the end, its flaws are merely speedbumps, small irritations in the fascinating and unique experience the game has to offer. A guilty pleasure indeed.","hours":165.3,"funny_percent":0.018404907975460124,"helpful_percent":0.9202453987730062}

{"review":"Mayday, mayday, oh stuff it, HEEEEELP...  You've crashed. On a planet. It's a planet made up of wierd and strange things, creatures that up until your arrival quite likely existed in peace and harmony, and then you brought yourself, your mass of crates which have scattered around the landscape, and the teleporters you so desperately need to get back to your now scuffed up transport ship to get out of dodge.   Whilst on the surface the game is very much a case of guns blazing and murder everything in sight, as you dig into the lore and entries of the game, what you'll learn is that the planet was more or less *fine* until the ship crashlanded, spewed it's cargo all over the shop and you, in your size twelves and large caliber weapons, decided to cut a swathe through the landscape to get out.  Congratulations, you are the risk of rain the locals keep talking about. Don't you feel just awesome?  Tightly tuned, finely balanced, class based roguelite gameplay...  Starting the game the first time gives you access to the beginner class - Commando. This class is a good place to learn how to deal with the game, and a balanced set of skills that should see you progress at a reasonable rate. All the unlockable classes are tailored towards specific styles of play, and generally require specialist approaches to get the most out of them. A good example is the enforcer, which is far slower and less mobile than the commando, but due to his riot shield, can essentially soak -ridiculous- quantities of damage from the direction he's facing.  Later classes are even more specialised, opening up classes that work from afar, or specialise in deployables or traps, or have other means of dealing with situations. In short, every class feels unique, and has their own combos and specific ways to work things out. Furthermore, with the items that you can collect, every class will evolve differently based on the drops you find. The Enforcer in one playthrough will be an entirely different Enforcer in the next. Even if there are some items you'll ideally want to grab each time.  The importance of good design and a great soundtrack  The graphics might be pixel art, which by this stage you'd think have been done to death, but on the contrary, the clear, concise design and the very well thought out vision ensure that this game always looks stylish and well presented. This is a game that revels in looking good, and always ensures that the player is in control of what's going on, even when there's a -lot- going on at once.  Combined with the precise and well balanced combat, along with the great sense of atmosphere, is potentially one of the best soundtracks of recent times, going alongside things such as Don't Starve, Deus Ex : Human Revolution, and Really Big Sky. A good soundtrack sells the atmosphere, and in this case it's been captured perfectly, possibly one of the best soundtracks in my library.  Deep replayability and a stellar atmosphere combined  Risk of rain was one of my top picks when I bought it, this has not changed and it still remains one of the greatest games available on steam. Along with the legends like FTL, like Dungeons of Dredmor, Risk of Rain should be considered essential gaming for anyone who wants to get their hands into the genre of \"Roguelites\" that contains things like Spelunky and co.  Verdict : Essential  Writer and columnist for Just Reviews, where you can get similar fine reading material. Join our group, follow our curations, and throw me a like if you would like to keep up to date with our efforts!","hours":7.8,"funny_percent":0.0008944543828264759,"helpful_percent":0.9051878354203936}
{"review":"Not a weather forecasting app.","hours":3.3,"funny_percent":0.015174506828528073,"helpful_percent":0.8555386949924128}
{"review":"Spend 90 minutes on a single run, melt everything in seconds then enemies get to the point where you're killed almost instantly. Cry for 10 minutes, then start a new playthrough. Good times.","hours":41.6,"funny_percent":0.1517509727626459,"helpful_percent":0.9494163424124513}
{"review":"  Risk of Rain is an extremely addictive arcade style 2D platformer shoot-em-up with roguelike elements.  Gameplay consists of dying a lot attempting to reach and activate the stage exit teleporter in each level, there are a total of 6 levels to complete per game before achieving TOTAL VICTORY  Online Co-Op, many characters with their own unique playstyle, randomly generated level layouts, and loads of items keep gameplay fresh and exciting   Gameplay  Tight, responsive controls and enough characters to pick a playstyle that you enjoy make this an incredibly fun and rewarding experience.  Graphics  A charming, simple artstyle with smooth animations makes this game a treat for the eyes.  Sound  An expertly done soundtrack brings a LOT to the table, sound quality is good, sound effects aren't obnoxious.  Story  A very ambigous story, no definite answers are given, but clues are relayed through item logs and monster descriptions.  Multiplayer?  This game features both local and online co-op, the co-op system (especially online) is a bit excruciatingly buggy, but very fun to play with friends.  Fun?  The artstyle, gameplay, and unpredictability of this game make for an extremely enjoyable time.  Category\tScore Gameplay\t10/10 Graphics\t10/10 Sound\t10/10 Story\t10/10 Multiplayer?\tLocal and online co-op. Fun?\tYes! Overall\t10/10 ","hours":180.9,"funny_percent":0.11888111888111888,"helpful_percent":0.9146853146853147}
{"review":"I wish there were more Roguelikes that was on the scale of Risk Of Rain.  What's Risk Of Rain?  Risk Of Rain is a platforming rouglike with it's own interesting universe, easy to understand controls, and crazy gameplay.  This is one of the few games that will help you feel like a god. The amount of power you can gain, from being a lowly survivor of the UES Contact Light that dies from a single bite to walking into rooms and watching the universe collapse every time you press \"Z\".  Every character that you play stands out from each other, having their own attacks, look, and feel. Not ONE character feels underpowered or overpowered compared to the rest.  Although this game doesn't have the absurd number of items like Binding Of Isaac has...what it DOES have is how every item is viable and doesn't completely topple your playstyle over if you get it. While this does mean there aren't many \"weapon changing items\", I find so much joy in even finding a common item, as it brings me one step closer to absolute destruction.  That's the joy I find in this game, it's to get as powerful as possible and go as long as possible. There's a nice story under it all (and good reason as to why the items in the game are even there) and if you really think about what you're doing...  You're the villain of this story, whenever you like it or not. The only way you could be somewhat good is if you blaze through the game as quickly as possible and killing as few as you can. The story's optional, though, and you can read about it when you kill foes in Rainstorm or Monsoon difficulties, since they drop logs at a slightly rare chance.  Almost every level has a artifact hidden in it, but you have to be lucky to roll the version of the level that has it. Every Artifact changes up the rules of the game, and gives interesting changes to it. Like, the lower the health something has (including you) the faster you will run, everything exploding with a shower of Creamator explosions when they die, a random skill of yours locking every minute..there's even one called Command that tosses out most of the RNG of the game and gives you chest drops when you get an item. The chest color is the rarity of the items you recieved, and you can pick whatever item from the item table you please. It's balanced, though, that the window you select items is real time, and you cannot move until you pick an item.  When I mentioned \"easy controls\", this game really does have simple controls. four buttons mapped for your movement, and four buttons mapped for your skills. You can even use a controller.  This game gets interesting when you bring in your pals for co-op, while making it even more chaotic. The game's completely viable solo, but the difficulty becomes interesting in co-op. Do you let your friend take the item drop, or do you snag it for yourself?  There's also a forced item sharing button, which balances out the items for players. Though, me and my friends agree this system is incredibly annoying, so take that with a grain of salt.  The music of the game is an interesting contrast from the chaotic blitzplay of the game. Even the most intense of the soundtrack is actually quite nice music to sleep too.    YouTube™ Video: Risk of Rain Soundtrack  Views: 564,441 Buy the Album: http://chrischristodoulou.bandcamp.com/album/risk-of-rain 00:00 Aurora Borealis 03:55 Arctic Oscillation 10:37 25.3°N 91.7°E 14:55 Chanson d'Automne..   If you want my personal favorite piece from the game, it has to be Surface Tension. It's also a boss track, usually used for the Wandering Vagrant boss.  The bosses in this game will be intimidating and will pose a threat, like any boss will, but as you become stronger, you may be able to start one shotting them..and..as you progress even further, normal foes will be replaced by bosses. Ever faced twelve giant magma worms, three overloading ones, six vagrants, and ten colossi at once?  It's one hell of a good time!  Despite all my praise for the game, though, I do have a gripe about the game. Though, it doesn't bother me too much.  The levels and item count.  The levels will soon feel repetitive, since you will learn their layouts pretty quickly...but at least the levels themselves have different setups. Though it doesn't help that the setups only change the minor places.  The items aren't in a vast quanity, where you will always find new ones...but, hey. Every item is viable to helping you become stronger. I'd rather have this than several items that are \"considered\" low tier and useless.   Overall, this game, albeit not a masterpiece or a gamechanger for everything that comes after it, it's a really fun game that's even one hell of a ride with friends.  And you know what? That's all I want to ask every once in a while. For the fun alone, I'd highly reccomend the game. The characters are colorful and vastly different from each other (along with having a lot of them) the items you can pick up are ALL great, none are trick items or downgrades, the game chugs on to become blitzplay after you start slaying... It's worth the price.  One more thing to mention. Every item in the game itself has a bit of story on it. Some of the Item logs are even begging for their own stories.  I'd play this over Binding Of Isaac anyday.","hours":159.6,"funny_percent":0.06626506024096386,"helpful_percent":0.9156626506024096}
{"review":"I played this game a little. It was fun.","hours":971.4,"funny_percent":1.451543431442929,"helpful_percent":0.7903804737975593}
{"review":"Beautiful, sophisticated, yet brutal. Yes, like your new girlfriend, Risk of Rain is a ball of wonderment and pain.  In this rogue-like platformer, you run around each level trying to find a teleporter. Meanwhile, enemies spawn randomly; killing them gives you gold with which you can open containers with upgrades for your character. Once you find a teleporter, you fight a boss and ultimately move on to the next level.  The catch? The longer you play, the tougher the enemies become! So speed is of the essence as well as quick reflexes and mob management.  The artstyle for this game is pixel based, and it's wonderful how much character these little sprites have! The tiny animations are smooth, and watching an enemy explode into blocks of meat chunks is satisfying.  The music is also fantastic; it's a hauntin track that sounds like a dubstep/trance hybrid one moment and a thumping bass the next.  And the gameplay: oh boy, is this game tough! But you come out of it a better man (or woman) with blistered fingers and a beard on her knuckles (that goes for the women too).  So this game comes highly recommended! There are a lot of achievements/unlockables including new items and classes, so the replay value is truly up there. Do yourself a favor and pick up Risk of Rain!","hours":34.8,"funny_percent":0.003067484662576687,"helpful_percent":0.9570552147239264}
{"review":"Where do you begin with a game like Risk of Rain? It's so new and original, yet so classic and oddly memorable that we can all adapt to it rather quickly while not feeling like we're repeating something playing it. Most \"pixel games\" as they call them I see now are simply normal games... with pixel-y art styles. This is one of those games that actually blends well with the art style, and I wouldn't have it any other way. Let's talk about gameplay for a sec.  Gameplay: Risk of Rain will kill on your first run. If this does not happen, you are probably a carrier of Jesus' will and strength on Earth, because it's pretty dang hard to pick up on your first go. But to help, I'll elaborate on just how NOT to die. You are given the Commando to start out with, and classes like the Bandit, Enforcer, and CHEF will be easy to get early on. Every character has 4 skills, kind of like LoL, except you don't have a basic attack outside of them - They're all you got. Most classes tend to have a movement-enhancing skill in their third slot, and a powerful skill in their fourth. The Commando is no exception. He has 4 basic skills which are very easy to learn and starts with above-average high health to help beginners.  Unlocking Stuff: Unlocking stuff isn't as easy as you would think. You're probably going to start on Drizzle, the easiest game mode. However, if you're a wimp, the game won't save any of your progress (This includes item logs), and no monster logs will drop either. If you want 100% completion, you're going to have to step it up. Most characters are unlocked by doing special things or filling requirements. No surprise there. The Huntress and Mercenary are pretty hard to get, asking for 15 monster logs and 5 game-wins, respectively. But don't worry - You'll get there if you like the game.  Items and YOU: Items are, without a doubt, THE most key tool you need to survive the night. When you start out, you will find items randomly from boss kills, chests, imp vases, shrines, and other places. Chests require money, imp vases require you to hunt down and kill a few frantic imps, shrines are like casinos, and bosses should be obvious - Kill em for good stuff. Most (Keyword - Most) items can stack. A few, like Thallium, can not. This is why the RoR Wiki is your field guide for items here. Items give you various buffs and bonuses, and have the power to make or break you depending on how you use them and your luck with finding items that suit you. Once you start picking up Artifacts, hidden items that you can activate to change gameplay once you die, quit, or win, can alter some things - But I'll let you figure that all out.  Difficulty: There's two ways this game changes difficulty - One, by choosing your difficulty on the character-select screen, and two, by slowly raising it during gameplay at a speed dependant on what difficulty you chose. This makes for very adjustable learning curves that will suit you everywhere. Artifacts can also help or hinder you if you're good at using them or not, for example; The Glass artifact cuts your health to 10%, but gives you a HUGE damage boost (Used to be x5 damage but they nerfed it, I have no idea what it is now - Don't worry, it's still fun as heck if you don't get hit!). Remember to start and progress at a rate that you're comfortable with, or else you might not have as much fun.  Conclusion: Oh yes, this is a game you need. Don't even ask why, just get it. It's 10 bucks. It's awesome. Once you know how to use and abuse the artifacts and characters, you'll pretty much be playing something like a God Simulator with every run, finding new ways to use your characters, match items, and have fun with MULTIPLAYER - That's right, MULTIPLAYER! Also, achievements in the form of READING AND KNOWLEDGE! Also, THE GAME LAUGHS AT YOU WHEN YOU DIE and gives SNARKY REMARKS! The art-style is AMAZING! The music is AMAZING! The gameplay is BONKERS RADICAMAZING TIMES TEN! Just! Get! This! Game!","hours":128.3,"funny_percent":0.056291390728476824,"helpful_percent":0.9172185430463576}
{"review":"I mean, I felt like I was a god. 15+ items, some of them stacked. Then 50 enemies spawned out of nowhere. I tried to run to a better piace for fighting them, and a giant box appeared. \"Press A to inspect\". My thoughts: \"whoa, this could help me out here\" Reality: a boss spawns out of it, it kicks my♥♥♥♥♥and enemies feast on my corpse. Death message: \"That was absolutely your fault.\" At least I died laughing.  11/10 just buy it and play","hours":9,"funny_percent":1.4754098360655739,"helpful_percent":0.889344262295082}
{"review":"Died brutally in a fire with lizardmen surrounding me and stone golems smacking my skull in, with white giants punching my guts into oblivion. Meanwhile, a giant magmaworm is flying around, smacking into me, burning me to death, while I'm already burning, and a green wisp is sniping me from across the map with his green ejaculation.  Death message: \"That was your fault\". Yes, it was my fault I died brutally on my first run. 11/10, more than worth the money.","hours":5.9,"funny_percent":0.25757575757575757,"helpful_percent":0.9696969696969697}
{"review":"This game is great. It has challange, it has diversity, it has high replayability. I'm 100hrs in and still haven't unlocked all items nor mastered all classes.  Pros: -randomized gameplay -challenging (seriously just don't go YOLO, you'll die a lot) -lots of in-game achievements -each class plays differently​ -lots of items so you can try different builds -fun coop -you can add even more challange through artifacts you have to unlock -big levels -endless (there is an ending level but you have the option to go to another level) -really long runs -trading cards  Cons: -setting up for coop might be difficult fore some players, as you need port forwarding to be a host. There are guides about this on the games' forum, but if you still don't understand them, maybe you have a friend who does and you can ask him/her to help you through teamviewer. -I don't have any more cons, but it would have been nice if all of the in-game achievements were on steam as well  I saw some bad reviews pointing at some data loss bug. I had it too, and the devs were really kind to help and found out that it's related to the vcredist packs. It's either one is missing from your computer or it didn't install properly. Just reinstall all vcredists and it should be all ok. It only takes a few minutes. I hope that those who had this problem will see my review.  In the end, i'll give it a 10/10","hours":104.6,"funny_percent":0.00819672131147541,"helpful_percent":0.9754098360655737}
{"review":"The rain it is talking about is your tears.......","hours":20.5,"funny_percent":0.5638665132336018,"helpful_percent":0.7767548906789413}
{"review":"So much better than having a life","hours":173.8,"funny_percent":0.001326259946949602,"helpful_percent":0.7771883289124668}
{"review":"After crashing on a planet you're tasked with a simple set of objectives.  -Survive  -Find the teleporter -Survive some more -Eradicate everything repeat.  For most games this could wear thin and become repetitive rather quickly but that simply isn't the case with this game. When you first play, chances are you will die a bunch without really knowing what to do. You'll unlock something else though and it will get easier over time. Think of this as a survival/horde mode roguelike countra-ish shooter platformer that never gets stale.   Each play through will generally net you either a new power up or unique character class to eviscerate and dismember the various lifeforms of each planet and area. It has a Binding of Isaac feel in a sense that things are swapped and randomized with each play through but you'll always fight the same bosses and end boss/stage. Much like Isaac your power ups stack and you can have some really brutal and devastating combinations by the time you get to the end.  The different classes and characters you unlock all have different and interesting criteria to make them available for use and there is something satisfying in seeing that you have reached a new tier of badassery when you are now plowing through enemies with dual pickaxes or laying down your heavy shield and firing cover shots to keep the wave of enemies at bay. the starting class \"Commando\" is more than suited for the task at hand, especially playing at Drizzle difficulty, but it should be known that every character plays completely different from the next and has a dedicated skill set and pool of abilities.  The bosses as well as the native creatures populating the planet are all aggressive and will swarm you the minute you come within proximity of them. This game also gives you a sense of urgency to complete the planet by steadily spiking the difficulty as the little ticker in the corner continues to count. If you can handle it you can play as long as you want, you can even get all the way to end and start back from the first level with all of your power ups in hand. There is a flexible and open level of choice that allows for revisiting the game and trying different things time and time again.  Risk of Rain comes complete with a somewhat minimalist pixel art style and the characters would be moving dots if the view was pulled out any further but it also helps give the monsters a look of towering giants and puts you in David V Goliath scenario for the duration of your journey. All of this is backed by an amazing and atmospheric soundtrack that will constantly have you nodding your head or getting pumped in rhythm of the beat.   You can get as much as you want out of this game but if you put the time and effort into it, you can squeeze an amazing amount of time and play out of your 9.99. Overall I give this game an 8.8/10 and recommend it to anyone who is a fan of roguelikes, team co op, old school side scrolling platformer shooters, and indie games.","hours":50.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9375}
{"review":"When I bought this I played it eleven hours straight without blinking. Please kill me.","hours":137.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7966101694915254}
{"review":"This game is:  10% luck 20% skill  15% concentrated power of will 5% pleasure 50% pain 100% reason to purchase Risk Of Rain yo","hours":187.4,"funny_percent":1.3820861678004535,"helpful_percent":0.764172335600907}
{"review":"Risk of Rain is an action-platformer with roguelike elements, with some interesting mechanics wich I'll try to explain the best I can.  Even if you start with only one playable character, there're ten of them total, and each one plays differently, thanks to his own four attacks. As time passes, difficulty will increase and enemies will spawn endlessly until you find the teleport, wich makes you fight for one last endurance round; beaten that, you can advance to the next level. Like other games of this genre, you can find active/passive upgrades (like piercing shots, increased defense, missiles and so on), but you can level-up too by collecting experience. An interesting fact is that powerups do stack, so you can have increased effects by collecting more of the same. Once you've completed enough levels, you can choose between replaying them to gain more loot, or going to the final one; you can easily grind more powerups if you want to, but the game can be beaten in less than a hour in a good run. Bear in mind that this is the kind of game where things get bad pretty fast, and you have to start all over again. Pixelated graphics are really good, but sometimes the action on screen become a little too chaotic. Chaos apart, gameplay is overall pretty much solid and fun. The game's soundtrack is AWESOOOOOME, I love it. Also, this game has coop, playing with other people works well and in my opinion some classes are not meant to be played alone.  Reccomended if these features caught your attention, and/or if you have friends to play with. I don't think Risk of Rain is a masterpiece, but it's a really solid game.","hours":33,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9166666666666666}
{"review":"...and so he bought it, and left his humanity behind.","hours":22.4,"funny_percent":0.02004008016032064,"helpful_percent":0.781563126252505}
{"review":"Risk of Rain is pretty addictive due to its simple mechanics but increasing level of difficulty as time passes. You can unlock different classes which mix up the gameplay in fun ways. Really fun game.","hours":9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8042168674698795}
{"review":"RISK OF RAIN. ITEMS GAIN. SEEMS REAL PLAIN. BRINGS THE PAIN. IS INSANE. HURTS LIKE CANE. FINE LIKE GRAIN. HEALTH DOES WANE. ANKLE SPRAIN, KILLING CHAIN. BLOOD DOES STAIN. HURTS MY BRAIN. BEST OF GAME. RISK OF RAIN.","hours":66.5,"funny_percent":1.8738489871086557,"helpful_percent":0.7458563535911602}
{"review":"Roguelikes have exploded as a genre lately, largely due to the number of indie productions out there exploring interesting ways to take an absolutely classic title and bolt new mechanics to it. Games like FTL, Rogue Legacy and Paranautical Activity instantly come to mind, taking randomised areas, crazy power-ups and eternal death as a basis and building them into something new and fresh.  Risk of Rain takes the idea of an impossible Roguelike to new heights. The hook of this 2D action platformer is rather simple: it literally gets harder with each passing second. Immediately the player needs to make a conscious decision: do you grind out the game in the first few minutes when the enemies are few and far between, farming gold and unlocking passive abilities that will help you when you reach the ten minute mark and all hell breaks loose? Or perhaps you want to rush through as many stages as possible before the difficulty curve rises. Risk of Rain is all about risk and reward, and while it doesn't necessarily break genre conventions, it manages to provide a compelling twist on basic mechanics.  Players are given access to a number of characters, each with four unique abilities that will aid them in combat. Each of said abilities has a cool-down timer after use, so learning which character fits your play style, and how they fit in with the rest of your team is imperative for survival. In the beginning you only have access to the assault trooper, but after multiple runs you will slowly unlock a cast of devastating characters that will help you see the game through until the end.  Once you select a character it's game on. You are dropped on a hostile world, filled with enemies. Each enemy killed will net you some gold, which can be spent unlocking chests found in the level, or taking a gamble and spending some at a divine statue. Sometimes this will yield you amazing items, other times it will take your money and laugh at your tears as you received nothing at all. Each time you use one of the statues the cost goes up also, which often had me throwing money away at it three times before I realised I was broke.  There are tons of items throughout Risk of Rain that will give you the upper edge, most of them offering passive buffs against your foes. There are a select number of consumable items you will find along the way that can be used to get yourself out of a tight jam, and there are also some helpful assault and healing drones that you can spend money repairing so they will follow you around and help against the onslaught of enemies. Just like any Roguelike, learning how to use these items in unison is key to survival, and after a dozen or so runs, you will begin to understand how it all fits together.  Each level essentially has the same goal: find and activate the teleporter which will call in a randomised boss fight. The bosses are tough....really bloody tough, and they will definitely give you a run for your money. To make matters worse, the timer is still creeping up towards a harder difficulty, and regular enemies are still spawning into the world, which makes is a cluster of pain and misery. Once the boss has been defeated the enemies stop spawning, you are left to clear the last of them, and then you can teleport to the next level. Before you leave however, you better search for any chests you may have missed, because each time you teleport you will lose your gold.  Risk of Rain keeps you on the edge of your seat the entire time, simply because that ominous timer is always ticking in the upper right corner. Slowly but surely you see the difficulty status rise from easy to no chance in hell and the sweat starts forming on your brow. You want to make sure you survive the game, but you also need to do it as quickly as possible. It's an impossible task, one that is truly captivating and kept us coming back for more and more.  While Risk of Rain supports solo gamers, the true core of the game lies with the four-player co-op. When you're tackling the beasts of other worlds with three of your best friends, each playing a different character and you are all working in unison, the game really shines as something special. If you're not likely to play the game with friends, I'd almost recommend skipping it all together; that is how integral the multiplayer truly is.  Risk of Rain manages to pull off the pixel look with style and flair. The characters are enjoyable, the enemies are ghastly, and those tunes are fantastic. If you can swing a few dollars, definitely pickup the soundtrack from the website, it's right up there with Fez and Monaco in terms of great indie game albums.  Highly Recommended ","hours":35.4,"funny_percent":0.03592814371257485,"helpful_percent":0.844311377245509}
{"review":"I think this game deserves a sequel or a DLC bad, I just hunger for more Risk of Rain!","hours":142.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9347826086956522}
{"review":"When you do it right, you become a demi-god of death.  It feels great.","hours":112.9,"funny_percent":0.3888888888888889,"helpful_percent":0.7716049382716049}
{"review":"You can get so OP from items that theres a point where you do more damage standing still than attacking. 10/10","hours":38.2,"funny_percent":0.40384615384615385,"helpful_percent":0.9038461538461539}
{"review":"It's hard to say something about Risk of Rain that hasn't already been said in the reviews already, so I guess I'll tell the story about how I came across it:    To start off, I'm a musician. You may be thinking to yourself now: \"Why is this guy telling us this, and, more importantly, why should I care?\" Well, I'll tell you. A few years ago, I went to a music camp for the summer, and one of my favorite things to do was to go out into a nearby field with a small speaker and go stargazing after our performances. We'd find some chill music to pull up and just talk about our lives. One night, this guy suggested we listen to a soundtrack he had, from a game called Risk of Rain. I was intrigued, as I love video game soundtracks, so I told him to plug it in. I was immediately hooked on the music, and I decided to go investigate the game. I played a gameplay trailer, and it looked interesting enough. I was a fan of roguelike games, and the pixelated art style was always something I enjoyed.  A couple weeks later, I went and purchased the game and gave it a go. Being a pretty experienced, I felt ballsy and started on Hard mode... That was a mistake. I was murdered within about 15 minutes. However, after switching down to the normal difficulty, I started playing through, and I loved every second of it. Before I realized it, the difficulty was no longer increasing, and the timer read 150:00. You know you've found a fun game when you can invest two and a half hours into it while having it feel like a matter of minutes.  A couple of days later, I had every class unlocked and just enjoyed myself. I told my friends about the game, got some co-op games going, and just felt happy. The combination of a fun and challenging game is something that I've always enjoyed. The simplicity, and yet precise technicality of the game, was made perfectly. And of course, the music. The soundtrack of the game is just beautiful, and matches the tone and setting of the levels perfectly. If you wanna give it a listen, here's a link:  YouTube™ Video: Risk of Rain Soundtrack  Views: 564,441 Buy the Album: http://chrischristodoulou.bandcamp.com/album/risk-of-rain 00:00 Aurora Borealis 03:55 Arctic Oscillation 10:37 25.3°N 91.7°E 14:55 Chanson d'Automne..  Anyway, that's the story of how I found this game. So, if you want a fun game with infinite replayability, and an overall great experience, buy this game. It was worth every penny for me. ;)","hours":69.3,"funny_percent":0.11627906976744186,"helpful_percent":0.9418604651162791}
{"review":"This game is AMAZING.  The mechanics are well-oiled (especially after the last updates; now, it flows smoothly). The OST is simply beautiful. The graphics create a unique atmosphere: the gameworld is dark-toned but not lugubrious; you feel lonely, but never properly desperate, and the scenarios are always enjoyable (even after countless hours of replay). Also, the storyline of sorts is gradually revealed via item logs and monster logs you acquire after some time playing - the game starts in media res. You don't need to know what's going on to enjoy it, but it surely adds to the flavor. I particularly like this form of storytelling: a very good game becomes more and more fascinating once you start realizing (well, perhaps not exactly) what's going on after some exploration. It reminds me of Diablo II in this point.  Most important, though, is that it is PURE FUN. Very challenging and very rewarding, it leaves me wanting more every time I play. Actually, I sort of developed an emotional attachment to this game; when I started playing it, I was somewhat distant from videogames (after 24 years of being a total videogame nerd), not really willing to play too much. This game (along with Papers, Please and some others) helped me \"feel the magic\" again, sorta like falling in love once more with your boyfriend/girlfriend after a period of strain and doubts.  tl;dr: FUN, rewarding, beautiful, challenging, cool, buy the hell out of it","hours":162.6,"funny_percent":0.06930693069306931,"helpful_percent":0.900990099009901}
{"review":"This is be a great game with loads of (sort of unexplored) potential. The graphics give the game an amazing atmosphere, the different classes are varied and really fun to play, the soundtrack kicks♥♥♥♥♥ it's 100% worth spending 70+ hours.  But the only problem is that, while the game has \"multiplayer\", but due to engine limitations, you'll have to either use portforwarding or programs such as Hamachi or Evolve. There's no actual official server list or browser.  The devs also release some bugfixes from time to time, but nothing else since they're actually working on Risk of Rain 2 right now.","hours":83,"funny_percent":0.09852216748768473,"helpful_percent":0.8029556650246306}
{"review":"Risk of Rain is possibly one of my most favourite games ever. I mean it. This is an absolute beast of a game. I am majorly addicted to this.   You start off with an basic character with no equipment or upgrades, starting out slowly killing a few bad guys at a time to collect more money, and in turn you open chests with the money you have earn, each chest will have a new piece of equipment which is randomly selected, making each run through completely different to the last.   When you reach level 20ish you are completely kitted out in equipment, upgrades and power ups, you can walk through hoards and hoards of bad guys using different techniques.   There is nothing wrong with Risk of Rain, at all. To me, this is a perfect game.","hours":71.4,"funny_percent":0.045714285714285714,"helpful_percent":0.8114285714285714}
{"review":"Stuff you should know:  -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you stand still for more than 15 seconds. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you stay in a level too long. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you focus on spamming your special moves when it's unnecessary. (you do have a primary attack) -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you try speeding through it. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you spend too little money. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you focus too much on trying to spend money. Just find the teleporter before you go discount mad. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you don't stack healing items. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you don't stack explosive/splash damage items. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you charge enemies. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you (try to) avoid enemies. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you focus on killing the bosses before you try killing the spawning enemies. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥because you get unlucky. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥even if you do get lucky. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you don't utilize the extra jump item that you stacked x3. -Take the final boss seriously.  You were warned.","hours":27.1,"funny_percent":1.0264900662251655,"helpful_percent":0.8278145695364238}
{"review":"What should I say?  If you like ...  a lot of greate 2D-Grafics-Style, a lot of Items, a lot of enemies, a lot of pixelblood, a lot of funny-rage-moments, a lot of fun, a lot of EXPLOSIONS, a lot of epic boss fights, a lot of simultaneously epic boss fights, a lot of runs, a lot of different type of heros, a lot of hard to get artifacts, a lot of awesome coop-moments, a lot of great music, a lot of ROCKETS  AND you can get all lot of's with  ---> NOT a lot of money ;)","hours":61,"funny_percent":0.325,"helpful_percent":0.78125}
{"review":"I can safely say that Risk of Rain is far better than it's clone, Chance of Precipitation.","hours":46.5,"funny_percent":1.474537037037037,"helpful_percent":0.7060185185185185}
{"review":"$3 for a game that has over 100 hours of play, acceptable purchase.","hours":121.6,"funny_percent":0.1,"helpful_percent":0.8625}
{"review":"great music, great gameplay. it just needs a better multiplayer system.","hours":12.4,"funny_percent":0.03225806451612903,"helpful_percent":0.8870967741935484}
{"review":"Makes fun of me when I die","hours":12.9,"funny_percent":0.0036855036855036856,"helpful_percent":0.6658476658476659}
{"review":"How awesome is risk of rain?   It's so awesome, it is one of the eight fold paths to gaming enlightenment. Right up there with speed running super Metroid, breaking 150 actions per minute in star craft and getting through all of half life with nothing but a crowbar. It breaks you first. Makes you accept that there is no hope and forces you to re-assess why it is you need to try again. You realize you are not playing for the win, you are playing for the playing. Your inner pixel art lotus flower opens up and only then will you make it to the end.","hours":150.4,"funny_percent":0.38666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.8933333333333333}
{"review":"This game is hard. THANK GOD!! Games are so damn easy these days, it's great to have a game that absolutely does not hold back on the difficult. YOU. WILL. DIE. and you will come back for more because of how damn fun this game is! And the music is incredible. Absolutely top notch. Buy this game. BUY IT.","hours":40.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.84375}
{"review":"The longer you stay on this hellhole of a planet, the tougher things will get.  But you're stranded. So. Please start moving.  The inherit challenge of Risk of Rain is to balance speed with thoroughness. Dwell any particular region longer and you're bound to discover (and be able to afford) an array of random weaponry which stacks together in clever ways, turning your hopeless vagrant into a prayed-for messiah. But there's that catch ... the longer you dwell in one zone, the more infernal the next will be. So as you fight simply to survive, you'll also be gauging time and charting hypothetical routes through the mysterious wasteland ... hoping to come across the right combination of moneys, chests and sacrificial totems in efficient order.  Aside from the planet's devious armory, your years on the frontier have supplied you with a certain set of skills. Regardless of your profession, these core skills usually take form in a weak-ish basic attack, a middling form of crowd control, some type of evasion, and a signature ability (think of this as the one that won you all that money on The Universe's Got Talent: Killing Edition). Each time you use a skill - beyond the basic attack - you'll have to wait a few seconds before you can use it again. As that one random monster crab is quickly joined by every casual acquiantance from his apparently quite-social life, those seconds can seem like an eternity. But you'll need to use those skills with abandon - conservation is for another time and place.  Again. Don't stop.  As your deaths accumulate, Risk of Rain becomes a game about learning the ins-and-outs of an alien frontier while constantly pushing yourself to discover new corners of its relentless universe.   Your only choice of profession at the start is a fine-tuned but vanilla-bean commando. But just as you begin to master your skills, you'll unlock a new, entirely unique character to possibly nudge your game progress further. Trust those who have come before: The new characters will often feel useless on the first playthrough. At some point, you'll wrap your brain around the death-delivering potential of each. And as you pour gallons of acid across shadowy plains or single-shot the entire health bar of one of the game's gargantuan bosses, you will learn to feel invincible ... for a minute or two at least.  Each of the planet's progressively elaborate environments includes a familiar basic layout from play to play, but its random generation makes each play just uncomfortable enough to force you to make decisions on the fly. Level talk is boring, but do note: the surprisingly elaborate final stage is reward in itself.  Risk of Rain is a game that requires skill and cunning ... but not so much skill and cunning to be abusive. It drops a torrent of challenges on you ... while giving you delightful ways to overcome them. To this survivor: It's earned a place in the Roguelike Temple of Elders.  Be sure to visit.  Just remember to keep moving.","hours":48.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9014084507042254}
{"review":"This late in the game, it may be pointless to review Risk of Rain, but I figured I should since I have a kind of a rekindled love affair with it. Keep in mind, however, that most of my playtime has been on the Vita/PS4 and I am now faced with the daunting task of unlocking everything on my PC copy. So take this as you will.  Released in 2013 (holy crap, that long ago?), Risk of Rain is an indie action platformer best characterised as rogue-lite and quite frankly, it is a total blast to play. When I got it, shortly after release, I put a little bit of time into it, but admittedly, I didn't -get- it. When you first fire up the game, you have only one character available (the Commando) and after a little intro detailing some dude destroying your cargo ship and your drop-pod blasting down to the planet below, you're left to your own devices. The drop-pod shows only the Commando available to choose with the promise of several others to unlock in the future and the promise is exciting. But when I originally started playing, I had no idea what to do, what I was doing, or really why I was doing it.  It was fun, but it didn't capture my imagination and I didn't give it the time it needed. The game was out to kill me and it was doing a good job. I wasn't doing very well at all with the Commando and I was desperately hoping to unlock some other kind option (to this day, I still don't like the Commando). Like I said, I didn't get the game at all. It was weird, it was alien, yet it was so beautifully-rendered and fascinating that I at least wanted to give it a go. I didn't understand what these chests and jars were for, or why so many enemies seemed to have the upper hand on me. After about an hour (keep in mind, at that time my runs in the game were probably no more than 10-15 minutes at a time), I had unlocked nothing at all, so I moved on, thinking perhaps this was one game that I wasn't going to meet for coffee later. Yet something about it spoke to me.  It wasn't until it appeared on PSN that I thought, huh, you know what, with such short runs, this makes the perfect hand-held game (for the record, it is the perfect hand-held game until you start beasting and having 30-60-minute runs), so I bought it yet again because of that -need- to understand the game and why it had always sat in the back of my head, sort of like how my first experience with Demon's Souls made me put it down, but it always called back to me. So it was on the subway as I was blasting away at purple lizards and smokey mushrooms that the game finally clicked. I had that \"a-ha\" moment like when you're struggling with something in class or at work and suddenly it all makes sense.  At first, the game is merely about survival. You will be minding your own business when suddenly mobs just start spawning in front, behind, above, and below you. They hit, and they hit hard. Worse yet, there's this difficulty timer on the screen that is slowly creeping up, almost mocking you as you die on \"Very Easy\" (for the record, I like the level named \"I SEE YOU\"). As it goes up, more things spawn; stronger things; scary things. You die. You retry. As you practice - and let's be frank, you need to practice - the game starts unbuttoning its shirt for you, one button at a time, teasing the prize underneath. You've noticed that the things you're picking up appear at the bottom of the screen in rows, all of them bestowing some kind of ability, some kind of assistance. You're living a little longer. You're braving the levels now, with a sense of purpose to get even MORE stuff to carry, each new item making you last that much longer, making you that much stronger. You've maybe got a healing drone or some turrets following you to make life a little easier. You've unlocked a piggy bank thing that allows you to buy even more chests to open. Eventually you are marching across the maps, unburdened by the equivalent of a warehouse strapped to your back, an indestructible god of violent chaos and at your command, you can unleash a missile salvo or fire off the weapon that you stole from the boss whose face you now wear stretched across your head. You reach the final boss and show him just what you've become and you relish that moment as the credits roll when you realize that it was all about the journey, not the end.  But wait... you've hardly unlocked a thing. You maybe have only one or two new characters now. You don't have any monster logs. Your item collection is missing a whole lot of boxes, some of which you can't even fill because you don't have some ability you've never seen before. What's this row of artifacts that I can't choose? Ah, that's what that cube of meat does? I see, I see. The purpose has now changed - it's all about discovery now. The game has clearly told you that it has a lot of secrets to uncover and it whispers, \"Come find me.\" You stop just surviving and now you're actually -looking- and the game is telling you that it's always been there in front of your face; a jump that's -just- a little too far, or a hole that's never been there before. You start asking, \"How do I get there?\" and over and over again, you unravel a little more. So you do it again. And again. And again. And again...","hours":2.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9791666666666666}
{"review":"You’re a little pixel man who shoots and punches wonderful looking pixel monsters. Super fun, very addictive and hard as heck. I'm not sure if I can cuss in these reviews or else I would have used a stronger expletive to signify the difficulty. IT’S HARD… but the good kind of hard. I also Made a video review. http://redlettermedia.com/pre-rec-risk-of-rain/","hours":22.6,"funny_percent":0.00909090909090909,"helpful_percent":0.8090909090909091}
{"review":"Intense and neat game, that combines addicting and challenging gameplay with really fun co-op. Not to mention that it has one of the nicest soundtracks.  Bonus points if you are a fan of rogue-like games as The Binding of Isaac or(and) FTL.","hours":203.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9607843137254902}
{"review":"You get to play as a robot chef who surfs on a wave of oil and throws boomerang cleavers at creatures from different planets.","hours":22.3,"funny_percent":1.118811881188119,"helpful_percent":0.7920792079207921}
{"review":"My favorite part was when I played for 45 minutes and then lost all of my progress when I died in one hit from a giant electric worm.","hours":83.1,"funny_percent":1.1311475409836065,"helpful_percent":0.7622950819672131}
{"review":"0/10 didn't rain once","hours":136.4,"funny_percent":2.6203007518796992,"helpful_percent":0.6954887218045113}
{"review":"Are you crying? No... it's just the rain...","hours":81.7,"funny_percent":0.8837209302325582,"helpful_percent":0.7023255813953488}
{"review":"everything wants to kill you but it'll be alright because I just found a ♥♥♥♥ing ukulele that shoots lightning","hours":31,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8024691358024691}
{"review":"This is one of my favorite Rogue-like game. This game is good, you can end up playing this game for hours. Even if you had died in the game, you will always try again and again and again. \"Easy to play, hard to master\" can be applied to this game. Every playable characters have their own unique playstyle.  The bad thing about this game is only the bug that still haven't been fixed even with the latest patch v1.2.0 Hope that Hopoo Games will give more love to this game by keep updating it.","hours":14.6,"funny_percent":0.018867924528301886,"helpful_percent":0.7641509433962265}
{"review":"Quite the fun game, I like both it's appearance, and playstyle. Definitely worth the money it's selling for now.  -The music is excellent, It fits really well with the respective level!  -Though the multiplayer definitely could be improved, with a little effort you're going to be able to host your own Risk Of Rain server!  -Though a rather simple touch to the game, it's well worth the amount of hours I've spent in this game so far!","hours":523.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9166666666666666}
{"review":"Great fun and super addicting. Fast paced platformer and roguelike that makes you fight with increasing difficulty the longer you stand around. As you take longer to finish areas the difficulty increases adding more powerful enemies and upgraded bosses the longer it takes.   It has a very similar item system to Binding of Isaac, in which you must unlock items by completeing certain tasks before they are available in the game. While there aren't achievements for ALL of these, the game has a listing in the menu telling you what you must do to unlock them, and the item pages give a short description over the padlock as well to show you what you need to unlock certain items. Starting now with 100 items to unlock and use, I am hoping we get a major update similer to Wrath of the Lamb and I suspect we will!  The worlds are randomly generated as well, but I am not sure if this is infinite, or they have a finite nuber of designs at the moment. It is a 2D sidescroller instead of the overhead view of Isaac, but uses a lot of the same concepts.   The game also adds a bit of lore to it with unlockable monster profiles that give you a great background on them and some funny dialog. The items also all have their own item cards with interesting infor and funny comments about them.   You unlock several (10 total) new playable characters with completely different skills and abilities to play through the game giving it very nice replayability. While in Isaac you start with basic tears and small stat differences, each character in RoR has its own unique weapons and weapon abilities to start with regardless of what items you grab. The items enhance your character in many interesting and unique ways.   Graphical style is very simple and may seem offputting at first, but it works fine and the pixel art is perfectly good. Don't disregard the game based on this!  The only issue I had early was the default controls, which seemed to be designed for left handed players, but fortunately they ARE able to be rebinded to our preferneces and I did jsut that so I felt more comfortable.   This is the next great Indie roguelike that is highly addicting, and totally worth the buy. I highly recommend it to fans of Binding of Isaac!  The game has Achievements and trading cards. The Achievements I feel are a bit underwhelming, however and don't give the same sense of completion as the ones for Isaac did. Hopefully they will address this with further updates to offer more ideas and challenges with them. Not that it needs them to be a good game, but it expands the challenge having new ideas and challengs to achieve.","hours":80.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8620689655172413}
{"review":"Risk of Rain is a mix of light 2D platforming, exploration, progression and combat. Each standard playthrough consists of up to 6 worlds the player can explore and fight their way around. Each level has one or two possible versions, and each version has one or two variations. You explore a pretty-looking environment to find the teleporter that takes you to the next level. While you roam around, different kinds of enemies spawn around you and try to give you the business. Killing them grants gold and XP, which lets you progress your character. XP levels you up, but the process is automatic so you really don't need to think about it very much. Gold, on the other hand, plays a much more impactful role, as it allows you to purchase items in a few ways. Every single source of items has a random element to it, even the ones that give you choices. Once you find the teleporter, you have to activate it then survive for a period of time while a boss and a ton of smaller mobs try to ruin your day. The boss always drops an item (sometimes an item you can't get anywhere else), though obviously randomized. The second to last teleporter also offers you the chance to warp back to stage one, albeit with all your items with you and the difficulty level maintained. What does that difficulty part mean?   While Risk of Rain does have 3 difficulty options before you start a run, they don't act like you'd expect. Instead they affect how quickly difficulty rises within the game, among other things. Each playthrough starts at Very Easy and goes up as you take longer to finish the game. Each new difficulty level increases enemy spawn rate, how often elite versions of enemies spawn instead of regular ones and how often actual early-game bosses spawn instead too. This exists to give a player reason to not just camp one map for an eternity. Sooner or later, depending on their item RNG and skill, they will get overwhelmed by the silly number and strength of the hordes that spawn in to murder them. The last difficulty level is actually called \"HAHAHAHAHA\", which is just the best.  Functionally, the game is pretty smooth. The sound design and music are enjoyable, fitting for the alien world atmosphere they set out to create. The art style is simple but vibrant, with a lot of pleasantly contrasting color choices. Flashy combat scenarios occur naturally throughout the course of a run. The controls are very simple and responsive, so it's easy to get into the game mechanically. I don't remember encountering any bugs, at least in singleplayer (more on that later). The player character occupies only a small piece of the screen but is big enough that it's very clear what's happening, at least until you wander into a horde of different enemies and they all start attacking, which can overwhelm you visually. The user interface very clearly displays all the information you need while playing, and I've never had problems with the in-game options.  Next, there's a lot of item and character variety to be enjoyed. Item effects range from basic stuff like \"Increases overall movement speed\" to more noticeable boons like \"Enemies you kill turn into ghosts that work for you\" or \"A ridiculously huge laser appears every once in a while and slaughters everything caught in its path\". The harder the game gets, the more chances you get at scoring the really insane items, but it's still fundamentally a luck-based system, which obviously may turn some people away. Character choices actually affect your playstyle, as each fighter has different strengths and weaknesses. Some of them deal with small groups more easily, others move around more efficiently, others can one-shot bosses with a good item set. Every character has 4 abilities, the first of which is their basic attack. Usually a standard shot or punch. The other three tend to be more character-defining. One character can completely block damage from the front at the cost of movement speed, another has 3 extra movement options, some of them spawn allies to help, etc.   All of this adds up to a considerable amount of replay value. Another feature that helps is Artifacts, which are treasures found in obscure corners of the maps or awarded after completing sometimes really vague challenges. These artifacts are unlocked as gameplay modifiers after you first find them and can completely alter how a run is played. From making enemies explode on death to letting you actually choose which items you get to spawning only elites, plus they can be combined. The artifacts are activated BEFORE a run starts so you don't mess up your run when you find one, and you're always given a choice of whether or not to use them.   So what are the game's problems? The first depends on personal preference, but the game is filled with enough random elements to probably turn away people who hate not being in total control. If you can't stand the idea of even singleplayer games having things you cannot influence (except with that one artifact, which arguably makes the game too easy), Risk of Rain might not be for you. It doesn't help that some characters are much more item-dependent than others, like the Mercenary.   Second, last I checked, multiplayer was a bug-infested hellhole of insanity. I played it with a friend, and whenever one of us would die, their UI would disappear forever until the next run. Not enjoyable, and that's just one issue we encountered.  The third problem I see is with how fall damage is implemented. Yes, fall damage in a platformer might be counter-intuitive to some, but it has a place in games like this, since they value careful exploration and tactics. Thing is, you don't take enough damage. In my 80 or so hours of playing, I have never encountered a situation where I'm actually afraid a fall might kill me. Couple that with how falling into pits doesn't actually end the run right there and you have an element in the game that seems half♥♥♥♥♥♥♥   Finally, the game's replay value doesn't stretch out as long as you'd expect when you see how many items and characters it has. Don't get me wrong, there are a lot of reasons to keep playing the game after beating it, and I mentioned this above, but it likely won't keep you coming back for as long as something like Binding of Isaac could. This is partly because most items don't immediately completely change the run, since their effects are usually only minor alterations to how you normally fight or move, through procs and mildly increased mobility. Extreme versions of some effects often require multiple acquisitions of the same item, since they stack. Artifacts help out a lot, but even that well dries up eventually and you may be left wanting more content. It would be nice to see more bosses and basic enemies added, or some sort of infinite survival mode with more maps tossed in, but I wouldn't hold my breath.   Still, I consider Risk of Rain well worth the asking price. If you can snag it up on sale or as part of a bundle like I did, even better!","hours":77.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9512195121951219}
{"review":"Welcome to Risk of Rain, how tough are ya?  This roguelite will make you: -Yell at your friends -Leave your friends behind -RUN -Show you which of your friends dine at Weenie Hut Jr's -Make you lose friends -Play alone -Wish online play were more accessible","hours":8.7,"funny_percent":0.6,"helpful_percent":0.8727272727272727}
{"review":"Where's the rain?","hours":20.7,"funny_percent":1.6923076923076923,"helpful_percent":0.6974358974358974}
{"review":"Risk of Salt","hours":39.9,"funny_percent":0.5409836065573771,"helpful_percent":0.819672131147541}

{"review":"If you move your fingers well enough that you are able to pass this game you will be able to satisfy your girlfriend.","hours":12,"funny_percent":0.6393188854489165,"helpful_percent":0.8978328173374613}
{"review":"Too easy. Died only 9745 times.","hours":54.1,"funny_percent":0.4157303370786517,"helpful_percent":0.9113607990012484}
{"review":"this game is so nasty!!!!! you're literally A MEAT","hours":0.5,"funny_percent":0.01935483870967742,"helpful_percent":0.8741935483870967}
{"review":"You'll hate this game before you love it. And you'll hate yourself for it. ","hours":103.5,"funny_percent":0.29015544041450775,"helpful_percent":0.8523316062176166}
{"review":"First game that made me cry. Out of frustration.  10/10 would buy again.","hours":17.8,"funny_percent":0.3182957393483709,"helpful_percent":0.8370927318295739}
{"review":"Things I learned from Super Meat Boy. It is possible to love the one thing you truly hate. There really is an art of dying. My 360 controller flies further than my ps3 controller. My neighbors can hear me through two brick walls at night. My neighbors think Im a serial killer. I might actually be a serial killer.","hours":10.4,"funny_percent":0.7140762463343109,"helpful_percent":0.9521016617790812}
{"review":"Fun, cheap game with awesome creativity and gameplay.  Soundtrack is marvelous through the entire game and makes some of the hardest parts less frustrating (...The Kid...).  Like how the difficulty keeps getting harder and harder as you advance through the stages, culminating in fun, well designed boss fights with amazing soundtracks.  Overall 10/10","hours":54.3,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9304635761589404}
{"review":"Amazingly slick and well made! If you like to challenge yourself, then this game is perfect for you. However, if you are not of the 0.5% of humanity who has patience enough for this game, side effects of playing may include Aneurysm, patchy loss of hair and divorce.","hours":14.4,"funny_percent":0.013043478260869565,"helpful_percent":0.9217391304347826}
{"review":"The Super Meat Boy Experience 1-1:Super easy, this game isn't a rage game 1-2:Too easy, come on. 1-3:Okay, now their is some challenge 1-4:Sawblades? Oh bring it on game 1-5:Okay, a little frustrating now 1-6:Definitely stressing me out 1-7:Building anger' 1-8:Definitely pushing me 1-9:Get the ♥♥♥♥ out of here 1-10:God ♥♥♥♥ing damn it 1-11:OMGWTFLAVA ♥♥♥♥INGOMGWTFBBBQQBAHHHHHHHOFJO NCUQI OMEICQ) POE<{QO_ MVE<{COQ{ MV{P<COQ MV}LQ V{Q V{LQ V{QLC{Q V{CQ< CQ{<E VCQ{< <{E Q<Q<*Chucks Computer Out The Window* Final Entry:I quit 10/10","hours":27.1,"funny_percent":0.4411764705882353,"helpful_percent":0.8419117647058824}
{"review":"For those of you who haven't played this yet, be warned. They're not kidding when they said this game was very hard! But aside from the high difficulty of this game, everything else is awesome. The soundtrack, the retro video games, the playable characters from other games, and I especially love the idea of the Dark World which clones all the main levels but made harder! If you are planning to buy this game, I suggest picking up the soundtrack too. What's an indie game without a zany soundtrack?  But let me tell you this one other thing: Practice makes perfect. With hours of practice and thousands of meat boys dying, you could negotiate the far reaches of the game and maybe even get the ironman achievements! I recommend this game because of the above-ness.","hours":50.3,"funny_percent":0.03508771929824561,"helpful_percent":0.9064327485380117}
{"review":"I always thought that \"videogames make violent people\" was bullcrap.  Then I played this game.","hours":13.9,"funny_percent":0.02491103202846975,"helpful_percent":0.8434163701067615}
{"review":"You will die thousands of times. And love it.  At the hardest levels it's like pure art when you complete a level.","hours":124.2,"funny_percent":0.08771929824561403,"helpful_percent":0.9649122807017544}
{"review":"This game is harder than Dark Souls.","hours":0.6,"funny_percent":0.22178988326848248,"helpful_percent":0.7957198443579766}
{"review":"it's like hotline miami  but you are only killing yourself","hours":4.7,"funny_percent":2.061135371179039,"helpful_percent":0.8384279475982532}
{"review":"Don't use a controller, that way you have less to throw at your computer.","hours":7.6,"funny_percent":2.5894736842105264,"helpful_percent":0.8578947368421053}
{"review":"On several occasions I got faced with the choice between rolling myself a spliff of crazy weed and playing Super Meat Boy, and I chose to play Super Meat Boy.  This, people, is how addictive Super Meat Boy is.","hours":514.1,"funny_percent":0.027932960893854747,"helpful_percent":0.7932960893854749}
{"review":"don't buy this if you're suicidal","hours":2.6,"funny_percent":0.9932885906040269,"helpful_percent":0.8791946308724832}
{"review":"This is ♥♥♥♥ing endless torture and pain.  Buy it immediately.","hours":18.3,"funny_percent":1.5360360360360361,"helpful_percent":0.8198198198198198}
{"review":"Step 1: Start a level and have fun Step 2: Die over and over Step 3: Rage Step 4: Scream of rage Step 5: Try to stop playing, because your too♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥off Step 6: Finish the level and scream of joy  Now start all over again...That's super meat boy, good luck!","hours":21.4,"funny_percent":1.4036144578313252,"helpful_percent":0.8734939759036144}
{"review":"I bought this game at Winter Sales 2013 for 2$, but started playing it just lately. I gotta say that it's well worth the 15$ original price it has! Very entertaining and well designed Arcade game with a lot of potential.  Pros: - Level Design - Unlocks - Music - Achievements - Trading Cards - Storyline - Mechanics and general design.  Cons: - Non-editable controls  I'll give this game a fair 8/10. Recommend for Arcade game fans and those who want to play something simple :)","hours":6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8767123287671232}
{"review":"It was fun until I get to chapter 5. To buy list: new controller, new keyboard, new screen... ","hours":7.7,"funny_percent":2.6064814814814814,"helpful_percent":0.8101851851851852}
{"review":"One of the best platformers ever made. With very tight controls, clever level design and a great, unique art style, this is a game you have to play.","hours":36.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8503401360544217}
{"review":"Simple mechanics, hard game. Very enjoyable. And i mean -95% off? You don't even have to think about it!","hours":3.1,"funny_percent":0.2807017543859649,"helpful_percent":0.8859649122807017}
{"review":"pounding meat all day just like irl","hours":18.3,"funny_percent":0.5317725752508361,"helpful_percent":0.7692307692307693}
{"review":"I'm going to make my future children play this with a keyboard as punishment.   10/10 Would buy again.","hours":62.8,"funny_percent":2,"helpful_percent":0.841726618705036}
{"review":"Gameplay: 10/10  * Fast-paced platformer + Ruthless and satisfying! + Perfect jump and air control ~ Steep difficulty curve - You cannot customize the controls easily. [Must edit an external file]  (Which isn't very cool for people who don't have a hand-held controller)  Soundtrack: 10/10  + Upbeat and motivating! + It is quite difficult to engage in the game without its music * Composed by Danny Baranowsky! :D  Artstyle & Impression: 9/10  + Every level is unique and visually appealing - Some of the colour choices in bonus and dark world levels make it difficult to see hazards (which can be frustrating)  Story/Content: 8/10 * Frequent references to retro and other indie games! (awesome!) + Packed with unlockables and bonus stages - The actual story is nothing special (However, the game would not benefit from a different story) + The gameplay is far more significant * Featured in: Indie Game: The Movie  This game is UNREAL! 9/10  Symbols KEY: + Pro - Con ~ Neutral * Fact","hours":18.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9175257731958762}
{"review":"Games becoming easier over the years is an interesting discussion. Were games too hard? Were they legitimatly hard on the nes? Snes? But difficult games are not gone completely. Games like dark souls and blood bourne show people still enjoy testing their limits. If those games names make you shutter at the thought of playing them due to the difficulty then this isn't a game for you. But to me? I love this game. It's a challanging platformer and yet...I almost never felt frustrated. But to start off, here we go.  Graphics 10/10-They're very pleasing to look at. Very minimalistic and not taxing on your hardware. I enjoy the little touches like blood trails on where you walk or climb. Don't expect ground breaking, but I don't think that was the intent.  Sound 10/10- Sound tracks are good. And never really repetitive. And the death sounds are gross in the best way possible.  controls 10/10-Perfect. Period. And it needs to be. If the controls were even a little bit off, it would be unplayable due to the pin point accuracy you need to get through the game. Ironicly the controls are so perfect you will need to get used to them. There is NO delay and that may throw you off for a little bit. But I never felt like the controls messed me up.  Gameplay 9/10-I love it. But it's really hard. I cannot say this enough. You need so much practice and such great reflexes, that you may not be able to beat the game. My point is that this game isn't for everyone. But this game does make it less frustrating by respawning you when you die at once. And the levels are not long either meaning you can get back to where you died quickly. Unlimited lives as well. My only problem is the hidden levels that have lives. It seems counter intuitive to the idea of the game and doesn't seem like a good idea.But it's so rewarding when you beat a level, it just feels unmatched.   replay 10/10- Yes, this will last you a while. unlockable characters with their own abilities,hidden levels and a harder dark world to complete...you get the bang for your buck.  overall 10/10-This isn't for everyone. But with it's perfect controls, great level design, and dark sense of humor, I always had fun even when I died, a lot.  ","hours":21.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"This is the greatest platformer I have ever played. The music, artwork, and gameplay are all magnificent. This game has infinite replay value.","hours":145.3,"funny_percent":0.024193548387096774,"helpful_percent":0.8548387096774194}
{"review":"decent game worth a few hours of my time","hours":754.4,"funny_percent":2.212121212121212,"helpful_percent":0.8257575757575758}
{"review":"My friend gifted this to me. We aren't friends anymore","hours":3.6,"funny_percent":2.835766423357664,"helpful_percent":0.7518248175182481}
{"review":"How to smash your computer yet have fun in 1 step  1. Play Super Meat Boy ","hours":5,"funny_percent":0.6111111111111112,"helpful_percent":0.7833333333333333}
{"review":">play level >keep dying >get angry >beat level, incredible satisfaction >repeat","hours":34.7,"funny_percent":0.9428571428571428,"helpful_percent":0.9142857142857143}
{"review":"Widely considered the best platformer in existence, this game will provide many hours of delightful frustration.  ★★★★★★★★★★","hours":66.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7763975155279503}
{"review":"This has to be the most challenging platform game I’ve ever played; Super Meat Boy (SMB) rises steadily in difficulty from easy to ridiculously hard core crazy. After passing the first boss I had to stop simply because my tired old bones and aching hands were almost suffering from RSI . That said; this is a beautifully executed game that will keep the most dedicated of platformer fans wanting more.   SMB has an endearing style of its own (despite the copious trails and splashes of blood with precisely designed levels that fit the theme of the game perfectly, plus it takes me back to the days when skill was the most important attribute for getting through a level. You'll need lots of that if you are to get to the end of this game, especially unscathed. I really don't know how anyone could get through a complete area without dying at least once. You'd need to be superhuman, or one of the best platformers in the world to beat these levels.    You'll often be surprised or even relieved at how short some of the levels are (no more than about 30 seconds); that said, with a content of over 300 maps, bonus stages and hidden warp zones that contain challenging extra-maps, dark worlds (one for each stage, e.g. Salt Factory Dark World, Hell Dark World etc) and, not forgetting the unlock-able characters which can be gained by collecting bandages that are placed in hard to get locations on several levels or finishing warp zones - try getting through one of the main stages or the hidden dark worlds without dying to gain achievements - only 0.6% to 1% of the Meat boy community are getting these achievements because they are ultra hard to achieve. Anyway, with all of these extra's plus using the editor, (which you'll find in your library under tools), you have the potential to create unlimited levels, that are only limited by your imagination, need for more levels and stamina, it's hard to get bored of this game. On top of that you're able to implement Maps made by the community.  If you don't already own SMB; now that its over 3 years old, you'll easily pick it up for a bargain price, especially in the many Steam sales that we get these days.   I highly recommend this game, despite me not achieving much in the way of completing most of the levels yet , (I've spent over 20 hours playing this game already and I'm still hungry for more) nor getting many of the in game achievements (couldn't be bothered collecting the bandages, lol). I certainly intend returning to the game when my hands have recovered from the deviously executed level designs.   If you've not played this game get it as soon as you can; maybe check out the demo (unfortunately Steam don't offer a demo download), or play the browser based flash game: http://www.kongregate.com/games/edmund/meat-boy to get a feel for the game.  Highly recommended and a 9 out of 10 from me (it loses a point simply because its a little too hard for me.  Last words: It's one of the best platformers of the last decade in my opinion (apart from maybe Gish). ","hours":28.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8705882352941177}
{"review":"This game made me hate meat so much, I became a vegan. 10/10","hours":21.8,"funny_percent":3.117021276595745,"helpful_percent":0.8404255319148937}
{"review":"I hate this game.","hours":8.1,"funny_percent":0.2793522267206478,"helpful_percent":0.7206477732793523}
{"review":"good game if you want to relax","hours":2.6,"funny_percent":1.3258426966292134,"helpful_percent":0.8314606741573034}
{"review":"Only took me 6 hours to beat the final level.","hours":15.6,"funny_percent":0.9320388349514563,"helpful_percent":0.7864077669902912}
{"review":"This is one of the few games that challenges you with difficulty in a way that isn't cheap, and instead motivates you to overcome its obstacles.  Most deaths are in your hands, and not in the hands of things you have no way of expecting.","hours":4.6,"funny_percent":0.061224489795918366,"helpful_percent":0.9591836734693877}
{"review":"One of the best and most well-designed platformers ever made. Don't let the rhetoric that Super Meat Boy is a notoriously hard game deter you. Yes, SMB does eventually get very difficult, but that is at the end of a very long, iterative road that starts off easy and gradually builds. At no point will this game beat you over the head mercilessly and make you feel hopeless. It wants you to succeed and get better, and that's where the great design comes in. Bite-sized levels, infinite lives, and you instantly respawn when you die. This is a game that respects your time, and I greatly appreciate that.  Super Meat Boy is also about freedom, always progressing and enjoying yourself. Get to a level that you swear you can't beat? Skip it and move on. You don't need to complete every level in a world to unlock the next one, and you can complete the levels in any order you choose with any character you choose. There are also hidden warp zones to explore, and a dark world to dip your toes in as well.  And once you've gone through some more levels, maybe done some hidden warp zones and took a breather, you go back to that one level that you were having trouble with and suddenly realize that it got easier. And it's not because you raised your stats or leveled up in the game, but because you naturally got better. It didn't take someone on a forum yelling at you to 'git gud' to do it. All it took was an incredibly fun and addictive game with super-tight controls and a metric ton of content.  That is why Super Meat Boy stands above the rest as one of the shining gems of indie gaming. It's just that good. Oh, and having an amazing soundtrack doesn't hurt either.","hours":90.3,"funny_percent":0.08695652173913043,"helpful_percent":0.9782608695652174}
{"review":"Died 200 times in the same place and still came back to finish the game. 11/10","hours":94.4,"funny_percent":0.10869565217391304,"helpful_percent":0.717391304347826}
{"review":"Playing this game with a mouse and keyboard is like brushing your teeth with a fork.","hours":7.5,"funny_percent":2.9148936170212765,"helpful_percent":0.7872340425531915}
{"review":"Now all my neighbours think I have tourettes.","hours":25.1,"funny_percent":3.212121212121212,"helpful_percent":0.7777777777777778}
{"review":"This is 10% luck, 20% skill, 15% concentrated power of will, 5% pleasure 50% pain and a 100% reason to purchase the game","hours":2.8,"funny_percent":1.5634920634920635,"helpful_percent":0.746031746031746}
{"review":".......................... (╯°□°）╯︵ ┻━┻","hours":3.4,"funny_percent":1.9469026548672566,"helpful_percent":0.7345132743362832}
{"review":"THE SUPREMEST OF MEATS  You want to know if you should buy the game?  WELL OF COURSE YOU WILL, but the question is: Will it bring you a sick sense of satisfaction or will it♥♥♥♥♥♥inside your soul?  Answer me this: - Do you like a (sick) challenge? - Can you withstand supreme frustration? - Can you stand failing an entire level because of one misplaced pixel? - Do you have suicidal tendencies? - Do you receive joy from achieving something hard? - Are you not a complete ♥♥♥♥♥?  If the answers goes like Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes, Yes, No, then boy you'll have a blast unpacking this box of pure massacred fun.  In all seriousness, game is great.  8/10 Sound and music - don't really need more than that, you'll be playing beats of your bodies hitting the floor at 30 beats per minute   YouTube™ Video: Super Meat Boy: Hot Damned (Indie Game Music HD)  Views: 481,032 Indie Game Music HD: Hot Damned (Chapter 4 Light) Game: Super Meat Boy Composer: Danny Baranowsky   7.5/10 Art style is very fitting and you don't need anything distracting you from what is important: THE MASSACRING OF INNOCENT MEAT  9/10 Game Mechanic - A ♥♥♥♥ING CHALLENGE that must be accepted by all those who think they have blood flowing through their testicles  6/10 Story - Story doesn't matter. Only thing that matters is your silent bawling in the dark corner of the room.  8/10 Personality and Depth - Custom levels in Meat world. Tons of challenges. Fun as hell.   8/10 Would meat again.","hours":2,"funny_percent":0.011494252873563218,"helpful_percent":0.7931034482758621}
{"review":"Dark souls 4","hours":2.4,"funny_percent":1.1869158878504673,"helpful_percent":0.7383177570093458}
{"review":"This is simply the best platformer ever made.","hours":42.4,"funny_percent":0.07291666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.75}
{"review":"Super Meat Boy is the game that started this new obsession for brutal precision platformers. Is certainly one of the hardest games of all time, but is always fair and also extremely rewarding. It will test your patience, but when you finally pass a hard level you feel super satisfied! It's not a game for everyone and it seems almost impossible to 100% finish it, but I recommend to people who like to challenge themselves!","hours":6.6,"funny_percent":0.014285714285714285,"helpful_percent":0.8285714285714286}
{"review":"For those of you who like having a broken controller; this game is for you. For those of you who like having a hole in your wall; this game is for you. For those of you who like flipping tables; this game is for you.  For those of you who are none of the above; get this game and you soon will be.   11/10. Would play again.","hours":160.7,"funny_percent":2.1645569620253164,"helpful_percent":0.7974683544303798}

{"review":"Have you ever noticed how, in a typical RPG (and, now that I think about it, most games in general) battles don’t really mean anything? How many times have you defeated a miniboss, only to have it stand back up and laugh at you, saying “I have underestimated you! You are a worthy opponent! This is not the end! We shall meet again!” and make a getaway? Think about it. How many times do you beat up Balrog in Cave Story only to have him fly away without a scratch? How is Black Knight able to keep running away after Shovel Knight stabs the hell out of him? How come you black out if you lose a Pokémon battle, but none of the other trainers do? And how does the big bad villain always seem to get away, even if their HP hits zero, so they can reappear in the sequel?  Undertale asks the question, “What if defeating an enemy in battle always means that they die?”  This might seem quite inconsequential in random encounters, but Undertale will also pit you against several main characters. If you defeat a main character in battle, they’re dead for good, and the whole story changes to reflect it. Heavy stuff.  But thankfully, as the game advertises, you don’t actually have to kill anyone! The game offers a second option to get out of battles: talking the enemy out of fighting. This involves solving a simple puzzle, almost always involving the “Act” menu in battle. The puzzle changes depending on what kind of enemy you’re fighting; sometimes you’ll just need to give them a compliment, other times you’ll need to survive several of their attacks, and so on. Once they’re not emotionally invested in the battle anymore, you can “spare” them, and the battle ends. You won’t get any EXP for it, but you’ll still get gold. It’s a very unique fighting mechanic!  I admit, after my first playthrough of the game, I was disappointed in the story’s presentation. I thought that both the very beginning and the final area of the game were fantastic, dripping with shocking emotional dilemmas, but the middle 80% of the game’s content seemed like it relied too much on oddball humor and not much else. The game hilariously plays with expectations and has no shortage of genuinely witty satire of its genre, and I found myself amused by nearly all of it, but after the first two hours as I was walking across long linear worlds and listening to dozens of characters try to tell me jokes, I started to wonder where the emotional gravity had gone. “Why is this game making me laugh, when I thought it was supposed to make me cry?” I asked myself. “Where are the feelings? After such an excellent and powerful prologue, why is the game taking so long to show me more?”  Later that night, as I was lying awake in bed, the answer hit me: the game was quirky and lighthearted because I was sparing everyone’s life. I wasn’t playing as a murderer. If you want this game to have drama, you have to cause it. And I think that’s where all the hype is coming from, all the talk about player choice. This is a game about being a tree-hugging pacifist, or a murderous psychopath who kills anyone who gets in the way, or anything in between. You only need to live with whomever you decide to be, because the game won’t let you ignore what you have done.  Though it isn’t the most visually impressive game, and the stage design isn’t always the best, Undertale has left me feeling that I have just witnessed a work of art. It tried some new and ambitious things and isn’t ashamed of what it wanted to be. It's about 6 hours long; I’d recommend anyone to play it at least twice, just to be able to say that they've made their own choices and seen what the game has to offer. It’s hard to imagine that anyone would regret the experience.","hours":11.7,"funny_percent":0.0763064434297311,"helpful_percent":0.9337392186707255}
{"review":"for the first time in my life, i felt like i had friends","hours":11.5,"funny_percent":1.399437148217636,"helpful_percent":0.875422138836773}
{"review":"this game made me love the two most hated fonts in history","hours":13.5,"funny_percent":1.6688380749800584,"helpful_percent":0.8721084817867588}
{"review":"Ten dollars. Only a few hours of gameplay. 16-bit graphics compared to the flashy 1080p stuff in standard games.  But... wow. Undertale blew me away. It doesn't need flashy graphics or even fanservice to falsify its enjoyment. It just does things right, and boy that was one immensely enjoyable experience.  I think most of the magic of this game comes from knowing absolutely nothing about it. I got this game from a friend and just decided to play it since it looked very interesting and it was getting good responses. So I went in completely blind, knowing nothing but the game's name. And I'm glad I did, because everything the game presented to me was unexpected, notably dark in places, and very emotional, which would have been lost entirely if i watched someone else play it. So, if you happened to have been flooded by everything Undertale on tumblr (god help us) and the entire story's already laid out for you, the magic has been lost and the game won't be as incredible of an experience. I'm sorry.  Of course, I call Undertale an \"experience\", not a game, only because it does such a fantastic job at it. Following the motto on the store page, \"the game where you don't have to destroy anyone\", the game always tries to nudge you in that direction, taking a back seat in your mind and reminding you to \"Spare them!\". And of course, you answer with \"Why? Why should I do that when it offers me the option to kill anyone I want right in front of me? What's in it for me?\" And that's where the game literally turns into a personal experience, as everyone has a different response for the game's selling point. And boy, does it turn to black or white pretty fast from here.  Undertale's ability to completely turn the tables of its story depending on your actions is massive. Upon your game's startup, every little thing you do will be set in stone in the game's story pathing. If you're the type who immerses yourself into the game's charming music, laughs at the childish but hiliarious anctics, and is willing to hork down healing items just to prevent yourself from killing a monster just because a fight is difficult, the game rewards you. It opens up a very character-developing and world-unfolding story, along with some of the most emotionally invested boss battles I have ever experienced. You know a game is good when it breaks the fourth wall so well that you're shaking in your seat in true fear and can't stop the shivers, all while having to fight a hopelessly overpowered god of a boss. The amazing writing only starts once you beat the final few bosses, and the story doesn't stop being good from there onwards.  On the other hand, what makes this game different is that it keeps its dark side from you, and its entirely your choice to experience it. If you scoff at the game's sparing choice since you're too cool or grown up to possibly be nice to people, you can go around and intentionally sink your weapon into a monster who just wants to be a friend. And unlike many other games, this isn't just a simple moment of \"Oops, I killed another unnamed enemy, let's reset the game and nothing changes\"... the weight of a dark choice is huge. Nothing can be taken back, and it forever changes your playthrough. Reset the game, and the characters know. Events change. And with each curious kill, you, in turn, turn from the only human in a land of monsters into the biggest monster in a land of innocents. In the end, ignoring what Undertale sets out to do, which is to let you experience childlike innocence and fun, only makes it delibrately change the game into a quieter, more grim story. Very little character development, and the world isn't explained to you, nothing. There's very little reward for going through this route. Yet it is a choice you can do. Granted, you get two of the hardest boss battles by becoming the murderer and will be forced into Game Overs repeatedly from them, but even that is a message from the game... It's trying to stop you from getting to the end of this route. Before its too late.  It's as if you're doing deeds in an actual living, breathing world. And that's what makes it even more terrifying when you decide to become a murderer instead of a savior, because only you know that you're willingly going forward to obliterate every weakling in front of you. It's a test of your willpower, and it's your choice. The worst thing? The damage cannot be repaired. Go clean, or go home tainted. The game even gives you the choice to completely delete everyone's happiness after the most satisfying happy ending. The happiness you worked so hard to earn. And you can even become the murderer after saving the world, which will only permanently taint your game and never let you have a satisfying ending again. That's absolutely brutal, and yet that's still a choice. Amazing.  Yes, this game might not be for everyone. The humour may become dry after a while for some people, and tons of gamers nowadays like to bash at popular games instead of trying it out, just because they feel accomplished by doing it. But, if like me, you are willing to experience why everyone's been talking about this game, give it a shot. Hell, even if you hate the game to bits and want to kill everyone, buy the game, do so, and at least have your own personal experience before refunding it. This game does the morality concept so well that other games can only dream of doing the same, and it is one not to be forgotten.  It is a sin to call Undertale a game. Doing that would categorize Undertale into the bland and consequence-free \"kill-em-all\" genres that a lot of games are falling into now.  Undertale is a story-driven, emotional experience.","hours":15.3,"funny_percent":0.06985294117647059,"helpful_percent":0.9171122994652406}
{"review":"(The positive reviews... fill you with determination) Do you wish to buy the game?   ♥  Yes         Yes p.s. 10/10, nice sound track, good gameplay, can't bring my self to do a genocide run.","hours":14.2,"funny_percent":0.9817121653856348,"helpful_percent":0.8701298701298701}
{"review":"10/10 game  0/10 fanbase","hours":49.2,"funny_percent":0.4006993006993007,"helpful_percent":0.8902097902097902}
{"review":"Pros: Lovely characters. Dogs. Wonderful music. Papyrus. Interesting gameplay and fighting system. Sans. Cons:  The fandom is a little weird. 9/10 ","hours":10.9,"funny_percent":0.1726844583987441,"helpful_percent":0.9167974882260597}
{"review":"This is one of those few games that come along when times are bleak, and games have become regularly bland and heartless. Where you feel disenfranchised with the whole idea of video games. And you begin to start ask \"Why?\"... Like \"Why should we play games?\", \"Why are games different from other media?\", \"Why should you use games as a form of expression?\" and even \"Why even play games at all?!\"   Undertale come along and says, \"This is why.\"","hours":31,"funny_percent":0.09017106407654392,"helpful_percent":0.9109886923746013}
{"review":"This game is like that one day when you were sick, so you didn't go to school and your favorite cartoon series was on a 24h marathon, and it was snowing, and it was actually two weeks till christmas, and you were getting your dream Lego set, and you were cuddled in bed, and there was pie, and you just played video games all day and oh my god im crying  Play this game. NOW.","hours":14.3,"funny_percent":0.693456827009262,"helpful_percent":0.8849716163728713}
{"review":"(Mostly spoiler-free review) I hate turn-based RPGs. This is my Game of the Year. What.  After becoming ULTRA-JADED about gaming with the cancellation of Silent Hills, this game re-established that games can be really, really frickin good.  This thing was made with an incredible amount of love, and it shows in every nook and cranny, every joke, every secret conversation you never thought a game dev would have thought to include. Tobyfox is the most thorough dev ever. I'm continuously impressed with how many things he thought to include in this game, and how he managed to make it all extremely fun the entire way through. You'd think you've seen everything in this game, but you haven't. There's always another amazing thing, another way to turn the genre on its head, another great joke you didn't see coming. And it stays engaging the entire time, supported by a cast of fantastic, endearing, hilarious characters. Great puzzles too, imo!   It avoids all the things about (turn-based and non) RPGs that I despise:  -There's no grinding (unless you want to) -Battles are a great length and never overstayed their welcome for me -There's no boring menu-navigation-only-based combat (bullet dodging/timing-based stuff really spices it up, as well as bossfights always having a new, really fun gameplay twist on them!) -There's no unlikable/unrelatable characters that go on and on about you being the \"Chosen One\" or whatever -No plot where you gotta go to the 7 temples and find the 7 sacred whatevers and then oh wait now that you've gotten those 7 sacred whatevers, you gotta go to 4 extra places and get 4 SUPER sacred whatevers...  -No backtracking (unless you want to! Backtracking is actually usually rewarded with more fun conversations and such.) -No constant equipping and unequipping items because, oh, this one is +2 Def but -3 Speed but THIS one is +3 Speed and -2 Def but THIS one is immune to fire and this one is... -It actually has a way more complex, useful moral than \"Evil is Bad, Good is Good.\" Everyone has relateable motivations. -The writing doesn't suck like 90% of RPGs. It has a wonderful sense of humor and a simple plot that is underlaid with complex emotions. -Has jokes about anime, doesn't take itself seriously.  I could gush about it forever. Undertale's not only made me less jaded about gaming, but also less jaded about real life. It has a strong message about empathy that stays everpresent, while somehow not being cloying about it, or shoving the message down your throat. It's simply a wonderful experience, please play this thing!!","hours":13.4,"funny_percent":0.10057471264367816,"helpful_percent":0.8885057471264368}
{"review":"When this little game rolled onto the Steam storefront on September 15th of 2015, I think it’s pretty safe to say hardly anyone probably could’ve imagined the impact it would have. I know I certainly didn’t; after all, my first exposure to Undertale came in the form of seeing the backlash its own fanbase brought upon it, alongside the vocal cynics and critics who panned it as “overrated garbage”. With claims flying left and right that it was the next Five Nights At Freddy’s and constant jokes about how it was “Tumblr’s favorite game”, I had plenty of reason to be skeptical.  When I looked into things myself, though, I found something far different than what I had been anticipating. Even from the very first moments I saw it in action, Undertale…connected with me, in a way few games have ever managed to, first impression or otherwise. As time continued on, I was shocked to see just how much love the game was receiving, including praise from such people as Totalbiscuit and Yahtzee (people known to have trouble enjoying most JRPGs), and so it rapidly became clear that there had to be something to this game; something big. If it could so thoroughly draw in even those who typically can’t enjoy the genre, then if nothing else, it had to be worth checking out.  I went in with some damn high expectations. What I got was one of the best games I’ve ever played.  I truly wish I had the words to properly explain what Undertale is to me. I could go on for hours about the near-perfection of the soundtrack. I could rave about the writing and how rewardingly rich in detail and nuance it is. I could praise it for its characters and the level of care put into making even the most minor NPCs come to life with personality. I could write a freakin dissertation on the sheer brilliance of how it uses meta not only to comment on the tropes and conventions of its genre, but also as a powerful gameplay and storytelling tool that rewards replay value. I could gush until the end of time about the powerful messages Undertale presents and the skill with which it presents them, even addressing real world issues with an inspiring amount of dignity.   However, what I truly adore the most about this game is how unapologetic it is. It’s never afraid to be what it is, and that confidence takes its strengths and makes them into something far greater than the sum of those parts. From start to finish, Undertale is one of the most utterly brilliant games I’ve ever seen, executed with a pitch-perfect prowess that creates an experience the likes of which few other games can match.   There is always something new; another layer to be peeled back; another beautiful detail to be discovered. And the deeper one digs, the more brilliantly this absolute diamond of a gem sparkles. No part of Undertale is manufactured: not a single pixel has escaped the loving caress of a gentle crafting hand, and as the offspring of a mere $51,000 Kickstart (over 10x the amount Toby asked for), it’s easily one of the most refreshing games of the last few years. Undertale made me laugh. Undertale made me cry. Undertale made me think deeply about the world around me.  But most powerfully of all, Undertale touched me unlike any game before it. It's no small wonder, then, that upon completion it became my favorite game that I've ever played.  Yes indeed, this wonderfully unforgettable experience.  It fills me. With determination.  I adore this game.  ----- EDIT: Now my nomination for The “I'm Not Crying, There's Something In My Eye” Award.","hours":59.9,"funny_percent":0.03763440860215054,"helpful_percent":0.9247311827956989}
{"review":"Great Game  Not So Great Fandom","hours":107.7,"funny_percent":0.23076923076923078,"helpful_percent":0.896978021978022}
{"review":"Genocide Run: You feel your sins crawling on your back  Pacifist Run: You feel your tears crawling down your face  I rest my case.","hours":35.1,"funny_percent":0.9652087475149106,"helpful_percent":0.878727634194831}
{"review":"The thought that someone might read this review, and decide to try Undertale...  It fills me with determination.","hours":15.6,"funny_percent":1.1726158763985082,"helpful_percent":0.8604155567394779}
{"review":"Pros: -Music -Story -Gameplay -Characters -Pretty much everything else  Cons: -Annoying fandom","hours":19.9,"funny_percent":0.34946236559139787,"helpful_percent":0.9327956989247311}
{"review":"This game is a dating sim This game is a retro game This game is a happy game This game is a silly game This game is a sad game This game is a cute game This game is a game This game is a dog This game is a bomb This game is a special game This game is determination What more would you want out of a game?  (Also, Goat Mom)","hours":81.4,"funny_percent":1.1440372802372378,"helpful_percent":0.866130057191273}
{"review":"Good game. Kicked me right in the feels with its amazing storytelling. Undertale has it all: memorable characters, an amazing soundtrack, well timed jokes and puns, and more. This game plays with alot of RPG elements and thats what makes it unique. Its nice to see something this clever. UT is a piece of art.      My only problem : bad fandom.  (I'm talking about the bad side of the fandom. Stay away from the bad side to protect your eyes) This review will get downvoted because I said that.","hours":10,"funny_percent":0.3668885191347754,"helpful_percent":0.8710482529118136}
{"review":"When I first heard of Undertale, I had no interest in playing it. I thought the fanbase was massively cringeworthy and the game was probably uninteresting.  I was correct about the fanbase, but boy was I wrong about the game.   I normally play action/adventure RPG games with the occasional sprinkling of singleplayer FPS. I am not the kind of person to normally go in for conceptual hipster nonsense, and I say that because that's what I thought this game was.   In reality, it has some of the best atmosphere and writing I've seen in a game in a very long time. And above all else, it manages to be heart-rendingly (no pun indended) sad at times and actually funny at other times. Plus, the music is fantastic and the whole package has a level of care I don't often see anymore.   You are doing yourself a disservice if you don't try this game out. And I don't say that lightly.   Story/writing: 10 Music: 8 Replay value: 7 Gameplay: 6 for the actual fun of it, but I'll give it a 7 just because of how inventive the mercy system is. This is an RPG you can play without killing anything.  ","hours":21.3,"funny_percent":0.050445103857566766,"helpful_percent":0.9376854599406528}
{"review":"This game is a giant middle finger to every AAA title ever produced.  On the budget of a ham sandwich a lone developer managed to make a game that outclasses everything I will play this year.  Remember that hilarious free flash game called Frog Fractions? This is the jrpg equivalent to it and worth every penny.   What you want to not do is a) kill anyone and b) read any more spoilers about this game.   Stop reading this and go play it.","hours":12.6,"funny_percent":0.4685754189944134,"helpful_percent":0.8603351955307262}
{"review":"Some games are okay.  Some games make you stop and reevaluate who you are at the very core of your person, make you feel a depth of emotion that no work of art ever has before, and then leaves you with a genuine sense of loss when its all finally over and gone, because you know you won't ever be able to experience anything that beautiful for the first time ever again.  You should probably play Undertale and find out which one it is.","hours":11,"funny_percent":0.14918032786885246,"helpful_percent":0.8918032786885246}
{"review":"ɪᴛ's ᴀ ʙᴇᴀᴜᴛɪғᴜʟ ᴅᴀʏ ᴏᴜᴛsɪᴅᴇ. ʙɪʀᴅs ᴀʀᴇ sɪɴɢɪɴɢ, ғʟᴏᴡᴇʀs ᴀʀᴇ ʙʟᴏᴏᴍɪɴɢ... ᴏɴ ᴅᴀʏs ʟɪᴋᴇ ᴛʜᴇsᴇ, ᴋɪᴅs ʟɪᴋᴇ ʏᴏᴜ... S ʜ ᴏ ᴜ ʟ ᴅ   ʙ ᴇ   ᴘ ʟ ᴀ ʏ ɪ ɴ ɢ   ᴛ ʜ ɪ s   ɢ ᴀ ᴍ ᴇ. ","hours":22,"funny_percent":1.521362414102181,"helpful_percent":0.8464296384822229}
{"review":"1. Ignore the cancer fanbase 2. Buy this game 3. Understand why everyone is crazy about this game","hours":19.8,"funny_percent":0.17754569190600522,"helpful_percent":0.9190600522193212}
{"review":"a lot of negative reviews claim this game's community is \"awful\", \"cancerous\" and \"perverted\".  they might be right  however, it looks like those people did not get the ♥♥♥♥ing memo that this place is for reviewing the game, and not the fanbase. why is fanbase even important in the first place? you can simply ignore it, if worst comes to worst.  so what about the game?  really, there are only two issues i have with undertale. once you begin the game, the first couple hours are absolutely boring as all hell. i have a feeling this might just be me though, because no one else seems to have similar gripes.  the second, more pertinent issue, is that the game lacks length. if you can read, you can see that i've played undertale for about 30 hours, and that's about as long as it's probably going to last you if you progress at a decent pace. keep in mind that i've very literally done everything there is to do and seen everything there is to see in these 30 hours.  now that that's out of the way, please consider the following:  the game has a really good story. i'm not gonna lie, one of the game's 3 endings almost made me cry. i'm not an emotional person either. i've played through games with truly gripping, touching stories like spec ops: the line and felt next to nothing, but undertale absolutely knocks the competition out of the park.   when i saw the credits roll for the last time, and knew that my time with undertale was done, i got the same feeling i've only felt before after finishing a very good book. i was sad because it was done, and sad because it would be a long time before anything would ever come close to the experience i'd had.   ok, well now you know how undertale affected me. let me explain why this happened.  1. undertale has wonderful music: toby fox, the game's maker, is actually not a writer nor programmer, but a \"music producer\". this complements perfectly the excellent battle system, which i'm about to discuss  2. battles. some of the game's battles, especially battles where you really are the bad guy (if you play the game you'll se what i mean), are exceptional. the epic momentum of toby fox's well written score works perfectly with the fun and fluid combat.  3. writing. toby fox seems to have a rare talent for excellent dramatic/comedic timing. if you play the game, as you should, you will see exactly what i mean. furthermore, the characters and story are just really fleshed out. in fact, i'm astounded to see someone from a music background succeed with flying colours where professional writers have failed many times over.   i highly encourage you to try this game","hours":30.6,"funny_percent":0.01834862385321101,"helpful_percent":0.9388379204892966}
{"review":"This game has one weird trick that makes the choices matter! TellTale hates it!","hours":57.3,"funny_percent":2.1042345276872965,"helpful_percent":0.8452768729641694}
{"review":"this game's bullet hell system is awful. you cant see the bullets through your tears","hours":13.5,"funny_percent":2.01294498381877,"helpful_percent":0.8345918734268248}
{"review":"Wow.  Just, wow.  I'm at a loss of words. This game...  ...It's an absolute MASTERPIECE.  For my loyal readers, do you remember my Shovel Knight craze last year?  Undertale is my Shovel Knight of 2015.   Graphics  The graphics are a simple 8-bit style, and although it's considered \"generic\" because of the whole \"8 bit indie game made by one guy\" sort of thing, this game uses it properly. I know, that seems really weird, but it's true. If you play the game and take a certain route, the final boss WILL blow your mind with the visuals. Not much here to say, it's not what's supposed to make this game so noteworthy, but it's still acceptable nonetheless.  Gameplay  Undertale is a lot like Earthbound in many ways, the most notable trait being the turn based combat and how it's portrayed. Nowadays, LOTS of games have opportunities where you can spare or kill a certain character and decide their fate. Their flaw, however, is that the said death often is just shrugged off, both in the game's world AND in real life. Undertale takes this concept and cranks it up a notch, leaving literally every single character's fate in your hands. You can go for a pacifist run and kill no one, and this is the one I would highly recommend going for if you do decide to purchase this masterpiece. There's also the neutral ending, which is the most common of the bunch but has one of the most creative final bosses I've ever seen in video games. I won't spoil much, but it will BLOW your mind, you can trust me on that. There's also the genocide run, which is incredibly difficult to pull off because of how emotionally difficult it is to actually kill this lovable cast of monsters. The combat itself is like Earthbound's, as said earlier. This being said, Undertale takes yet another step forward, adding bullet hell and platforming to the mix and blends the two perfectly, making the game far more exciting, while keeping the original RPG elements.   Story  This is the very core of why Undertale is such an unforgettable experience. Of course, though, you shouldn't be shocked at this point, because most of the internet will agree with me on that. The cast of characters is so diverse and unique, each one having traits to make them likable or the one you'd love to kill on a genocide run. For example, you have Sans, my favorite of the bunch. He's a laid back, prankster, and easy going skeleton who has a brother named Papyrus. What Papyrus lacks in intelligence, he makes up for with a big heart for humans. You also have Flowey, who immediately will creep you out because of how ruthless he is. As for the plot itself, it's one big emotional rollercoaster you would want to ride over and over and over again. It has its hilarious moments, since the writing is surprisingly well done, while it has its sad moments, too. What takes the cake on all of this, though, is that it literally makes you rethink everything you knew about video games. The fourth wall is also broken often, and this is done in the most clever and creative ways. It's like Kid Icarus: Uprising, except Undertale does it far better. I almost forgot, too, but every action in this game will be remembered by the characters, long after you actually beat it. People have called this game a \"sentient being\" and I can actually agree with them on that. Trust me, Undertale is literally perfect for storytelling, and I won't be shocked if you cried a bit. It's hard not to, and with such a unique cast of lovable characters, it further justifies my point.  Audio  I have a friend who also loves Undertale, and the one thing he seems to point out about it is the soundtrack. I can't blame him, because it's really catchy. Remember how I said this game was my Shovel Knight of 2015? I wasn't kidding about that, it has the awesome soundtrack to go with it. You have Bonetrousle, the sinister, yet lighthearted and catchy tune that fits Papyrus. There's the Spider Dance, Muffet's theme. This theme is a lot more evil but far more catchy, and is one of my personal favorites. The king of the bunch, however, is one that didn't directly originate from Undertale: Megalovania. Sans' theme is slowly becoming an iconic boss theme, as it has been used in two different times in the past, and this variation is definitely my favorite of the three. You also have some humorous songs, namely the Dogsong. I won't get too in-depth with that one, but I need to say this now: GEEEET DUNKED ON! There is no voice acting, but why does that even matter? This game doesn't need it. Overall, this game has some high quality music, and I love it that way.  Replayability  As I said earlier, this game has multiple endings. Want to know what makes it interesting, though? The characters will remember EVERYTHING you've done. I mean that, too. Mess with the game's files and try to beat it that way, I dare you. With the multiple endings, the replayability is far more dependent on you. If you have no soul, you'll probably try and do a genocide run while doing the other two runs as well. Maybe you'll try and do a pacifist one so you don't have to go through the pain of killing anyone, then do a neutral, and finish with a genocide ending. Just remember, EVERY choice will be remembered permanently.  Verdict  Undertale is easily my GotY at this point in time, but it's also one of the most creative games I've ever seen. This is an absolute masterpiece, and I really hope it wins a LOT of awards. Do I recommend this game? Well, I'll join the internet on this one and say, \"Of course!\" Just be ready to stock up on spaghetti, because you'll need it while you stress-eat and do a playthrough of this gem.  Graphics - 8.5/10 Gameplay - 10/10 Story - 10/10 Audio - 10/10 Replayability - 9.0/10  **PERSONAL PICK**  .:10/10:.  +Breaks the fourth wall in extremely creative ways +AWESOME soundtrack! +Emotionally powerful and also mind blowing storyline +Unique cast of characters +Morality system done perfectly +Adds platforming and bullet hell gameplay with turn based combat +Lots of hilarious moments +Makes you rethink everything you knew about video games","hours":10.2,"funny_percent":0.22338830584707647,"helpful_percent":0.8845577211394303}
{"review":"♥♥♥♥. This is a tough one to write, not at all like my usual reviews. I'm just sort of rambling and gushing because there's so much to say about Undertale... and I can't SAY anything without spoiling the experience for you!  Yes, you!  Buy this game, don't watch anything on YouTube about it, don't read the Undertale subreddit or any wikis, don't even read this review (though I've avoided spoilers, of course) – just seal yourself into a room with a computer and some kind of makeshift toilet, play it to completion, clean yourself for the love of God, and come back.  ...  Hero? Villain? Or something wholly other?  The year isn't out and there are some huge releases yet to come, but that being said...  Undertale is a GOTY contender, indie or otherwise.   It's the best RPG in a year of amazing RPG releases.   It's the funniest, most well-written game in, well, a very long time.   It's the most genuinely heartwarming (and incredibly dark) game in, well, a very long time.   It's challenging but surmountable, given a little skill and a whole lot of determination.   And it's also the most mind-♥♥♥♥y game in, well, a very long time, in an entirely unique way! Sure, you can compare it to Metal Gear's Psycho Mantis or Eternal Darkness' sanity meter effects, though that won't do Undertale's special, thoughtful mechanics justice.   But I digress.  You play as a tiny, gender-neutral child with bad fashion sense who falls down a mountain into a cavernous underworld filled with all sorts of fantastical monsters – all of whom have been banished there after losing a war with humankind. Now you have to get yourself back to the sunny, human-friendly overworld.   Fairly standard so far, complete with the pretty concept art cutscenes and humdrum hero origin tale.  Then five minutes pass and all your expectations just sort of fly out the proverbial window screaming, never to return.  Like, ever.  Thus begins your six, seven, or eight hour (initial) journey into Undertale. You'll encounter all sorts of wacky, zany characters and monsters, puzzles, traditional RPG-type environments... loaded with obstacles standing between you and the finish line. And it's up to you decide how you're going to approach the aforementioned zany characters and monsters. Sure, you can do the traditional “kill indiscriminately” thing, but that's just one solution. See, Undertale is an RPG where you can beat the whole damn thing without killing anyone!  Like, you can hug your way through the entire affair!  Easy enough, right?  And you can always just reload a save if you screw up, right?  …  Anyhoo, combat mechanics are... it's hard to describe. It's like a traditional turn-based RPG combat system only, well, those expectations all went screaming out that window I mentioned earlier. Your heart appears in a window below the enemy you're currently dealing with and you have to dodge bullet-hell-style attacks... most of the time anyway. Even after your old expectations are but a distant memory, newly established expectations go flying out screaming too.  It's a little weird.  If fighting is your style you'll have that option, of course. Presented with a flashing bar, hit the sweet spot and you'll do the most possible damage; rinse and repeat. You can access items, check on the enemy's stats and what have you, pursue a peaceful resolution... lots of options, and every monster is a little different.  Well, not a little different – incredibly different, incredible variety! And figuring out their ticks, traits, fears, and dreams is all part of the fun puzzle that is Undertale.   But there's more!  Undertale's music is fabulous – in that wonderfully synthetic, retro way. Every character has a “voice,” every monster, region, and special event has a theme, and when appropriate, the music is chillingly absent. It's the best part of this game - beside the top-notch writing.  I said every character has a “voice,” referring to the musical tones playing during dialogue. But they also each have their own VOICE, you understand? There's the overly protective mother, the bad jokester, the lacking-any-self-awareness fella... but even then it's just scratching the surface. These ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥s emote! These sprites have some Shakespearean depth that becomes more apparent with each hour, each playthrough.   You'll care for them, whether you want to or not.  …   What else is there to say? I laughed out loud two dozen times or so, I lost count; I nearly cried at least five times, I was God damned jumpscared more than once, I had an existential crisis, and I'd do it all over again.   And again.  And again.   There's, like, nothing I can even complain about! Were some of the fights tedious, long-winded? Yeah, but I might be biased because I wanted to just enjoy more dialogue, more strange interactions, more environments. Were some of the references lost on me (particularly Anime stuff)? Sure, but that's what Google is for.   Undertale just is... objectively good.  Objectively great.  It's an experience like Shadow of the Colossus, Zelda: Ocarina of Time, Half-Life, Red Dead Redemption, Dark Souls, EarthBound... a little, unassuming 2D RPG game released in 2015 stands shoulder to shoulder with some of the best games of all time – one I initially judged by its cover and ignored.   I'm glad I deleted that particular corrupted save file and started fresh, because missing out on this game would have left a little heart-shaped void that I might have never filled.","hours":16,"funny_percent":0.19338422391857507,"helpful_percent":0.8651399491094147}
{"review":"I was skeptical when I bought it. Oh boy, another game with a moral choice system. I was wrong. So terribly wrong.  Oh man, do your choices matter. Every. Single. One.  And don't think you can pull your usual tricks, either. Flowey knows what you've done. Flowey sees all. Flowey knows where you sleep at night. And Flowey... is your best friend. =)  So, are you going to be good? Are you going to have a bad time? What fills you with... determination?  EDIT: When I wrote this I hadn't fully completed the route, though I thought I had. I'm going to be a little more serious.  This is the only game I've ever played that made me fall out of my chair laughing, jump out of my chair in shock, and slump out of my chair in the least manly of tears. I need a new chair is partially what I'm saying. The other thing I'm saying is... just... holy crap. This game.  Go in blind, but remember this -- you are NOT above consequences.","hours":25.8,"funny_percent":0.30248618784530384,"helpful_percent":0.8756906077348067}
{"review":"You should totally play this if you enjoy; -Earthbound/Mother/similar genre of old school RPG's -Amazing soundtracks - >internet references -Severe emotional trauma -Crippling paranoia about everything you've done and will potentially do in your miserable span of existence  TL;DR made me an emotional sobbing mess, so all in all 10 outta 10 would delete my biological save file and experience this♥♥♥♥♥♥all over again.","hours":20.6,"funny_percent":0.4782608695652174,"helpful_percent":0.8593894542090657}
{"review":"You take: Earthbound Dating Sim RPG Elements Bones Dogs a Flower and a story that will rip your heart apart(no matter how)  and you get Undertale  10/10 would cry again 0/10 would want to restart","hours":17.9,"funny_percent":0.7990690457719162,"helpful_percent":0.8463925523661753}
{"review":"It made me cry. Gaming is not dead.","hours":9.4,"funny_percent":0.2217391304347826,"helpful_percent":0.8554347826086957}
{"review":"If you like spaghetti and crying alot, BUY THIS GAME.","hours":24,"funny_percent":1.2202486678507993,"helpful_percent":0.837181764357608}
{"review":"pros: game cons: fandom","hours":43.8,"funny_percent":0.6120996441281139,"helpful_percent":0.8558718861209964}
{"review":"There has been no game that has affected me as deeply as Undertale has.  This is coming from someone, who did not understand what the word 'empathy' meant, until age 11, and is still very much trying hard to be a decent human being; the distinction here is important: Empathy, and caring for people does not come naturally for me.  Yet here's a game that made me care. A person that takes the most pragmatic route in every game. A person who was banned from multiple games for griefing, and toxic behavior. I ended up caring deeply about ALL of the characters in this game, and I simply could not bring myself to lay a finger on most of them. I was filled with DETERMINATION to go against how I usually play, and make damn sure that nobody gets hurt, and everyone gets their happy ending.  Toby, man, I have no idea how you managed to do this, but.. Thank you.  As for you, dear reader, you're probably asking; is it worth the asking price?  You tell me. Buy it. Play it for two hours. Steam can refund you, if you hate it; you have literally nothing to lose. You'll have no regrets, either way.  But be good, won't you?","hours":15.5,"funny_percent":0.10299003322259136,"helpful_percent":0.8554817275747508}
{"review":"Pros:  - Amazing music.  - Amazing characters.  - You don't have to kill anyone.  - All problems can be solves without violence.  - Goat mom is so nice.  - You can date a skeleton.  - You can be friendzoned by said skeleton.  - Dogs.  - You can fight a fish woman and then hang out with her later and become friends.  - You help said fish woman and an anime loving lizard dinosaur thing discover their true feelings and get together.  - You can pet the dogs.  - Puns.  - You get to be on TV with a hot robot dude.  - Puzzles  - Quotable and memorable dialogue.  - Pretend date the scientist lizard.  - Mew Mew Kissy Cutie 1 is better than Mew Mew Kissy Cutie 2.  - You can throw a stick and the dogs will catch it.  Cons:  - This game is fictional.","hours":43.4,"funny_percent":1.0278372591006424,"helpful_percent":0.867237687366167}
{"review":"I thought my favorite game this year would be The Witcher 3, maybe MGSV. I put 70 hours into the former and 50 hours into the latter. Yet I feel like the 8 hours I spent getting the true pacifist ending of this game was the most emotionally invested I have ever been in a video game. It has a beautiful soundtrack that I haven't stopped listening to since I beat the game, unique gameplay that I haven't seen in any other game, quirky humor reminiscent of Earthbound/LISA, and a story and characters that I don't think I'll forget any time soon.  If you even remotely enjoy RPGs or want an entertaining story, play this game.","hours":9.2,"funny_percent":0.04941860465116279,"helpful_percent":0.8895348837209303}
{"review":"Ah yes, this game. The one with the Steam page you click on several times wondering if you should buy it or not, the game itself bringing you in, the community drawing you away, paranoid you might become one of them.  You're not alone, oh no, far from it. I felt the same way at one point. Then I decided, \"screw it, I'm buying the game\". So I did. I have owned this game for a couple weeks now. To date, I have not drawn any fanart or written any fanfiction about it. Hell, I don't even have a DeviantArt account. But the community aside, let's look at the game itself.  Undertale is quite good, yet doesn't deserve all the hype it got. It's a nice, tasteful indie game, with quite a bit of silliness and humour added. Some being childish (groan), some being fanbase exclusive (sarcastic \"oh boy\"), but most of it being something you can at least get a little chuckle out of.  The music is really good. It uses a mixture of 8-bit and orchestral instruments meshed together oh so perfectly. This game would definitely be nothing without it.  The \"story-rich\" story isn't very rich at all. It's still good though. To sum it up without spoilers, it's about a kid who went exploring on their own to a mountain everyone knows is inhabited by monsters. Thus begins your journey through a strange new world, wondering if you'll ever go back.  The graphics? Bootleg-grade. Solid colours and poorly drawn sprites (except for the characters) everywhere. But don't let that stop you from buying this game. Seriously, why does such a little thing as graphics matter when you've got a nice story, nice tunes, and nice characters?  Overall, I give this game a... ??/10  \"What? An unknown rating? Why?\" Because I know a lot of you will think differently than I will about this game and that's okay. I know that opinions on this will differ from person to person. Truth of the matter is, if you don't mind a short, silly, yet still tasteful game that may not always make sense, then this game is for you. If you want a game that isn't as silly and makes more sense, I'd suggest leaving this game out of your library.  Honestly, I cannot decide how this game should be rated. There's a variety of positives, yet a variety of negatives as well. I'm recommending it though because it's definitely not garbage, that's for sure.  In conclusion, you did good, Mr. Fox, and I'm sorry this game got way more popular than you wanted it to be. Have a cookie. You deserve it.","hours":45.3,"funny_percent":0.09188544152744631,"helpful_percent":0.8400954653937948}
{"review":"I love this game so much, I made the trailer for it! I did so after being super impressed by the demo, and asking Toby if there was some way I could help out.   After experiencing the final game, my high expectations were absolutely blown away.  Undertale is a fantastic, novel, unforgettable RPG experience in so many ways.   It couples thoughtful, reactive NPC interactions with a very engaging bullet hell / varied minigame combat system that, unlike most rpgs, never becomes a bore or a slog. Difficulty was a gentle ramp, though affords opportunties for the player to really challenge themselves. All of the combat defenses are unique to each enemy, serving as both funny and clever expressions of their personalities. Mechanically the combat is so solid it makes me wonder why I haven't seen it done before.   Undertale ties its combat and the rest of its game systems so intricately into its narrative, into achieving what it sets out to do as an experience, that it's almost magical.  The characters are genuinely likable and relatable. I find this supremely important to stay interested in narrative-focused games and Undertale does not disappoint. Depending on your interactions with characters, the choices you make will hit you. Hard.  Audio... Well, Toby Fox is known for doing some tremendous music tracks. On first listen to many of Undertale's songs I said to myself 'oh yeah, I can tell this is going to become an instant classic.' The melodies and compositions are just excellent, and truly help create memorable in-game experiences. You want the soundtrack, trust me.  I might consider graphics to be the 'weakest' aspect of Undertale, but I'd stress that they are utterly appropriate and support the experience. Really the one nitpick I have is that I'd liked to have seen more NPC animations in the overworld, to make monsters feel as lively and ~sassy~ as they do in combat. But it's a small quibble in a very, very intricate game. Ultimately Undertale's simple, cartoony, certainly Mother-esque graphic style suits it perfectly, enhancing and fortifying a very chill, friendly tone.  A single playthrough is in the neighborhood of six hours, but by design Undertale encourages both replay and reeximation of choices made throughout the game. I went through its content repeatedly, eagerly looking for new insights and interactions I had missed, and I feel like I got way more value than I could ever hope to expect for the price.  Get this game, it's touching. It's worthwhile. It's Undertale.   Oh, and Toby? Thanks for letting me help you. It means a lot to me.","hours":27.4,"funny_percent":0.04076086956521739,"helpful_percent":0.8777173913043478}
{"review":"I've made more friends in this than I have in real life.","hours":14.7,"funny_percent":1.8032786885245902,"helpful_percent":0.8348946135831382}
{"review":"Undertale is a game where you, a fusion between Dora the Explorer and the -_- emoticon, fall into a vast cavern that a race of monsters have been trapped in since long ago, and can choose to do tasks, a few of which follow:  -Petting dogs -Flirting with skeletons/airplanes/your own mom -Lying on the floor and feeling like utter garbage after a meal -Striking poses on TV -Bullying Mike Wazowski -Accidentally going on a date with a bisexual lizard scientist who is a weaboo -Hugging goats -Hugging a volcano -Petting dogs -Decaminating the underground area in a bloody massacre -Getting possessed by a demon -Petting dogs -Eating food literally made of spiders -Determining the realism of anime -Petting dogs  And that's just a few of the heavy morally weighted you'll have to make in Undertale. In this world, it's kill or be killed. 10/10","hours":62.1,"funny_percent":2.10974358974359,"helpful_percent":0.8276923076923077}
{"review":"this game lets you pet all the doggos and it's a very good game in terms of dogs.  10/10 would woof again","hours":16.9,"funny_percent":1.290251916757941,"helpful_percent":0.8258488499452354}
{"review":"You can flirt with an airplane.","hours":17.8,"funny_percent":1.8323699421965318,"helpful_percent":0.8728323699421965}
{"review":"if you kill things, you are going to cry if you kill everything, you are going to cry  if you spare everything, you are going to cry   If you play this game, you will cry","hours":19.7,"funny_percent":0.4562899786780384,"helpful_percent":0.8464818763326226}
{"review":"I got the true pacifist ending.  Now I refuse to play the game anymore ;~;.  'Cept to rehug folks.","hours":29.2,"funny_percent":0.2947103274559194,"helpful_percent":0.853904282115869}
{"review":"The thought that there are games this gut-wrenchingly sad, beautifully heartwarming, disturbing, hysterical, unexpected, clever, and all-around compelling...the fact that a ten dollar game made mostly by one person outshines hundreds of millions of dollars' worth of AAA+ games the same year...  it fills you with D E T E R M I N A T I O N.","hours":8.6,"funny_percent":0.2808988764044944,"helpful_percent":0.8792134831460674}
{"review":"At first when I saw this game I didn't think much of it. All I knew about the game was that there were two cool looking skeletons named Sans and Papyrus. Other than that I thought nothing else of this game. Infact I thought this game was lame in all honesty. So, one day I decided to purchase the game. I thought it was going to be a waste of money. Little did I know this game was going to be the most heart wrenching, intense, emotional game I will ever play in my life. The characters in this game are memberable and relatable. Theres always excitment everywhere you turn. I've been so attached to the characters in this game. When they gave me the option to kill I could never bring myself to it. Even after beating this game I can't bring myself to hurting the characters. WHICH IS SO STRANGE BECAUSE THEY ARE VIDEO GAME CHARACTERS. This just goes to show that this game will make you attach yourself to the characters you interact with. And the underlying theme of this game is incredibly strong. I don't want to reveal it in this review you're just going to have to beat the game and find out for yourself. This game is incredibly powerful and it's totally worth the price. You will be entertained for hours and your heart will be torn into bits and pieces (trust me, my heart was crying so much) If you are still reading this I thank you for your time. Toby Fox and his team did an amazing job on this video game. I've never been happier with a game such as this one. Lastly, Don't judge a book by its cover, as cliche as this sounds, thats what I did and I could've missed out on a great game. That is all I have to say. Have an amazing day:)","hours":13.7,"funny_percent":0.08536585365853659,"helpful_percent":0.9065040650406504}
{"review":"Undertale, “the friendly RPG where no one has to die.” When a game makes you feel bad for killing monsters and makes you consider not killing any more, then it definitely does something right!  Story  The story goes that both monsters and human once ruled over earth, living together, until war broke out between the two races. The humans defeated the monsters and drove them to the depths of Mt. Ebott, trapped with a magic spell. You appear on a bed of golden flowers, and are greeted by a flower, and taught about friendliness pellets. Afterwards, you can choose to massacre every monster you meet, or choose to show mercy to your opponents. Your actions of killing or mercy will shape the way the game progresses, as well as how others view you. The dialogues, and even the music of the game will become happier or distorted based on your killings or acts of mercy. With that said, there are a few endings that can be achieved within the game, some being more satisfying than others; some feeling like you are cutting onions, and some just for the cold hearted. What makes these outcomes to impactful, and sometimes sad, is the way the monsters react to the player’s actions, and sometimes questioning your actions and making you feel like a monster for the things you do. This is also true when you do immoral things like take more than one candy from a bowl of candy that says “take one please”.  Gameplay  Gameplay is very easy to catch on to, and is like one of those old time rpg games like Earthbound. Your goal is simple, but complex, just get through the game(through any means necessary). Your initial goal, or why you are there are not stated, but you can assume you fell down the mountain (as seen in the opening). Your real goal is to play the game as you like, exploring this unique world of monsters and see what it has to offer. While you explore the world, you will have numerous random encounters with monsters, in which you are a heart that must avoid monster’s attacks, and will die if you take too much damage (causing you to restart at your last save). Pretty easy to understand and play, but a bit difficult to master, as some of the later encounters will be a lot more difficult to dodge seamlessly, and may prove to require a bit more thought and endurance to overcome, rather than just one lucky turn. The game itself is not too difficult, in that it does not have any difficult puzzles to do, and no grinding is required to win the game, as the game can be beaten without killing a single thing.  Visuals/Audio  The visuals are all a bit old timey, but that does not take away from the experience. As for the audio, there are a wide variety of songs that make the game very fun while in combat scenarios. The beginning music was a bit new to me, as I did not think it would have the old retro type of music, but it surprisingly worked well and was not monotonous, and seemed to match the backdrops, and battles very well.  Characters  Why would I include a characters section in a review? The answer is, because they are such an integral part of the game, otherwise it would be like any other rpg, with the exception of the option to spare your opponents. The characters are what make this game so memorable. It’s not the fact these characters are super likeable, since you may end up disliking or even hating some of them, but the fact these characters will end up growing on you in the end. Without such a unique and hilarious cast of characters, the player would not feel any real motivation to spare them, or any remorse if the player decides to kill any of them. They are in all respects to this game, the driving force that makes it so popular and why it causes many (if not all) it’s players to shed tears.  Verdict: 9/10  Staying determined really is the only way to beat this game!   If you enjoyed this review, please feel free to follow our curator here.","hours":22.8,"funny_percent":0.08133971291866028,"helpful_percent":0.9186602870813397}
{"review":"Product received for free  Before I get into the game, I'll start off by saying that my friends played it almost as soon as it came out. One of them maybe even helped Kickstart it, I don't know for sure. I thought they were cringy as hell. They bought it for me, but I refused to play it for like a year and a half or something like that. I thought it was gonna be so overrated and that it was going to bore me to sleep. Hell, I really only played it because I wanted some of the trading cards that would come with it so I could get CS:GO cases. I honestly thought I'd just play it and be done.  But,  I have never been more wrong in my entire life  This game literally changed my outlook on life in general. The story is amazing, so long as you keep an open mind. The soundtrack was phenomenal. The songs perfectly portrayed what was going on in the story, especially when big story events happened. My only recommendation for playing this game would be to spare every monster before you try any of the other ways to play. If you're anything like me, it will change you. Over all, Undertale has become one of my favorite story-driven games ever. I haven't felt this attached to a fictional story in years. Undertale's fanbase is cringy. Hell, you probably think I'm cringy just by reading this. However, if you are in any way curious about this game, just try it. Go into it keeping an open mind and maybe you'll love it as much as I did.  tl;dr I thought this game was gonna be trash, but it was actually really good and I loved it.","hours":58.7,"funny_percent":0.08173076923076923,"helpful_percent":0.9182692307692307}
{"review":"Product received for free  Before playing: Undertale's fandom is cringy as ♥♥♥♥. Im NEVER gonna play the game.  *Got Undertale as a gift*  After playing: I think i'm in love with this game.","hours":43.2,"funny_percent":0.39464882943143814,"helpful_percent":0.8294314381270903}
