{"funny_percent":0.02117853167081231,"helpful_percent":0.22630588989626668,"review":"I wish I could recommend this. It's very fun, hard mode is challenging and putting 450 hours in felt fun. But luck dictates everything. I can miss multiple volleys and then get hit by a missile in an important system, costing me the game. I could get poor events and have no scrap (which already is a problem in hard mode). Balance feels way off. Some ships are just too awful to play (rock a, engi b, stealth c) and some others are just op. At the start it's very boring, but I can deal with it.  If the devs made luck not dictate everything with drops, and averaged out misses over every battle (eg if you get hit by 2 missiles in a row, the third one is 2x less likely to hit or something like that) while also making scrap more consistent, I'd recommend it. But when you leave the game to procedural generation, it isn't fun.   Hacking is OP, cloaking is OP, missiles are OP for enemies but useless with you, same with burst laser 3, 70% of weapons are unusable 80% of the time and there are few countermeasures to luck.  Randomly missing enough shots to guarantee that your volley does not break their shields? Not balanced. If there isn't anything I can do about it, that isn't balanced.","hours":534.2}
{"funny_percent":0.045333918593480405,"helpful_percent":0.21269632928561596,"review":"I've put a bout 60 hours into the game, but I think it has a fatal flaw. Randomness is the single greatest factor in if you can actually win a run.   I get that its a roguelike, and as such it has some amount of RNG to it, but it feels like RNG is the biggest thing that determines if you live or die.   Sometimes the game shops won't spawn weapons/upgrades strong enough to defeat the final boss. Other times the enemy ships evade all your attacks and you can't dodge a single shot. Sometimes events give you scrap(money that you can buy ship upgrades with), and other times they kill a crew member, damage your ship, or have some other detrimental effect.   The number of runs in this game that I've had where it feels like I was sunk from the beginning, where the tools to beat the game just didn't exist, is too high.   RNG needs to be toned down in the game.","hours":68}
{"funny_percent":0.006049870311889138,"helpful_percent":0.1336778987406646,"review":"I REALLY wish there was some sort of neutral review option instead of the up or down thumbs. Let me just say that this game is extremely fun. It is extremely polished and it will keep you coming back for more time and time again when you die. And yes, you will die....ALOT. The main problem i have with this game is how it always seems like your opponents dont play by the same rules as you. This is laughably apparent when you encounter the flagship, but more on that later.  This is a game where the RNG (random number generator or random number god) holds your fate in its hand almost every time you do a jump. It does not matter how decked out your ship is, how many max level crew you have or how prepared you THINK you are. Like i said in the previous paragraph, the game does not play by the same rules as you, and you will find many enounters that feel unfair, or some that are flat out impossible to win against depending on what ship you pick.  And that leads me to the games boss, the flagship. If you manage to get to this behemoth of a ship, you will probably do what i did the first time i encountered it. First you will be awe struck at how big and how many systems and weapons it has, and then when it fires that first volley of lasers and missles which seem to never end, you will sit back, laugh out loud and roll your eyes. I am by no means saying the flagship cant be beaten, because it most definitely can. The problem is in order to beat it there are really only a small list of ship \"builds\" that are effective, and even with those setups, grasping victory can seem very difficult. Alot of the time you have to rely on luck, because while you think that 55% evasion you have actually equals 55%, it will feel like 10% when a full volley of missles and 2 volleys of lasers all impact with almost no misses whatsoever.  As i said, the game is very fun, its definitely worth your time, and you will come back for more no matter how stupidly frustrating it can be. Just realize that all the planning and ship upgrades in the world are just one or two jumps from ending up as space debris at any given moment.","hours":92.2}
{"funny_percent":0.04952377311312455,"helpful_percent":0.17804653376159188,"review":"/rant Dodge/Evasion mechanics in any game ruins it, everything becomes RNG based, and not skill based, who cares if you have the perfect build if none of your shots land? This is the issue with FTL. You can spend hours upon hours experimenting with different equipment, thinking of new strategies, learning the various ins and outs of space combat, and then come to the realization that low evasion, high shields, high dps, with a focus on the enemies weapons and piloting systems are your best bet.  This minimizes if not elimates all aspects RNG. You invest your stats into guaranteed bonuses, not a paltry MAYBE when it comes to your stat investments (evasion in a nutshell). You target their weapons to mitigate more damage, then their piloting system in order to drop their evasion to zero. This will get you to the final boss 9/10 times. (I played on normal and targeting shields first always proved least economical)  Speaking of which  /rant part 2 Introducing new mechanics in boss battles is insane, I guarantee your first boss fight will always be a loss becase the final boss does two things 1. Has multiple phases 2. Introduces a new mechanic in the extra phases. Not only are those two things annoying, but this fight is the definition of unfair, in order to do well against it you NEED Cloaking and its expensive as hell. If you don't have these prepare to sit idle and be barraged by high damage weapons before you even get a shot off. I tried many different strategies against the boss and cloaking with some form of disruption ie: mind control or hacking, is always the best, but seeing that this is also subject to RNG I have lost countless time because killing shots miss, or I can't keep their systems disabled long enough because well... MY SHOTS MISS  I can only recommend this game if you are bored and have money to waste, learning the game is fun, but once you have a good handle of what to do and what not to do, things get stale, and RNG becomes your only weakness.","hours":41.9}
{"funny_percent":0.028788394334493483,"helpful_percent":0.05206640435711276,"review":"When it comes to critiquing rogue-likes/lites like FTL, the biggest factors for a review are to determine how much is the game dependent on luck versus skill/knowledge as well as to decide if the anomalies of its content are worth the emphasis of its seemingly limitless replayability. Every game within this genre is going to have deviations by focusing on the appeal of luck or skill, by rewarding players with randomized items or mastery of its mechanics through hiding them, and by having satisfying gameplay to be worth the replay-value through the emphasis of constant failure. All these aspects are dependent on the reviewer’s preferences, which makes a single review worth only to those who share likeminded opinions on what qualities they enjoy in games.  The reason for prefacing the problems of reviewing rogue-likes/rogue-lites is because as much as I have grown to despise FTL I believe there are others who may enjoy the aspects I dislike. As a fan of these games that focus on skill like The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth and Enter the Gungeon, the problems of FTL’s reliance on probability to succeed takes away its enjoyable elements over time. As a fan of more probability games like Sword of the Stars: The Pit and XCOM, the rigid nature of FTL’s builds with the final boss makes the game feel too deterministic in that no matter what the odds are when they are not entirely in your favor makes the possibility of victory increasingly unlikely. These faults when put into a game together undermine what enjoyment there is for a game to please either audience.  In short, the way in which FTL relies more on set definitions for victory with your vessel’s arsenal is ruined by its emphasis on the probabilities to obtain your arsenal. The result never makes you feel as though you earned your victory through the journey, and the start of your journey feels paved with failures beyond your control.   To Boldly Go Where No One Has Gone Before  If there is anything that brings back fond memories of FTL it would be the experience itself as mechanically recreating the feeling of the voyages of Star Trek’s Enterprise. Before there were games like Artemis Bridge Commander and the VR Star Trek game that focus more on the cooperation of an acting starship, FTL was one of the few genuine experiences of acting as the captain of your own vessels on a voyage to save the Federation from the impending rebel forces as well as to explore the stars to make stories told from the adventure into the unknown.   As a rogue-like/lite concept, FTL manages to frame its context to enhance this experience of the misadventures and the triumphs of your journey. From a top-down perspective, you can control the power distribution of all major systems as well as utilize the ship’s doors to shift the oxygen flow throughout the vessels; you can command crew members to man their stations, to intercept boarding parties, or to make sudden repairs during combat; and as the commanding offer you coordinate attacks, make negotiations and make decisions for your crew that can save the lives of others or doom yourself in the future. Throughout the many gameplay elements, the responsibilities, the consequences and the rewards of managing your vessel creates a player-driven experience of true role-playing.  These decisions will impact not only the rewards you need to improve your vessel over the course of the journey but also provide new side quest opportunities or companions to unlock extra vessels in the meta-game of FTL. While not every story may be insightful, the importance of these decisions is focused on the rewards and consequences strung together for your experience rather than any structure to tell a great story of its own. As far as making a game that makes the most out of its context, FTL is a prime example of interconnecting the story with the gameplay to create a sublime experience each time you create a new crew and christen a new vessel with the story of its voyage.   No Win Situations Are a Possibility Any Commander Must Face  However, as I alluded to at the beginning, the journey of starry-eyed adventures of you, your crew, and your vessel is undermined by the prevailing fear of the end-game with the difficulty spike of the Flagship. Out of all end-game bosses in any rogue-like/lite, the Flagship embodies all the worst possible traits of difficulty for the sake of difficulty.  For starters, the final boss is a three-staged process that is not broken up with any downtime for resupplying the vessel after suffering massive damage, which is never hinted until you discover it for yourself. On top of this issue, the boss shows no signs of lasting damage over the course of each win as it can utilize high grade equipment like EMP blasts, cloaking and/or teleporting boarding parties on top of its heavy shields that encourage the player to plan ways around these mechanics in the game as the player approaches the final confrontation. Perhaps even worse of all, the emphasis on having a boss fight based on the combat efficiency of your vessel really takes away any negotiation or peaceful tactics you may have established in previous battles with no other means of defeating the final boss.   This last point is the only one people might want to contest as a final boss is meant to be a confrontation with no other means of victory to enforce the penalty across multiple runs of making bad decisions. The problem is like with the original Deus Ex: Human Revolution, if you are going to offer non-lethal options or persuasive means of resolving issues throughout the game, why would you exclude these tactics for boss fights? Resorting into one means of resolution mainly impacts the replayability offered through role-playing it instills a min-maxing approach of destroying all your enemies to get the most loot to have a fighting chance at the end. On top of this issue, not all items that you may need may be available as you play the game; the other situation might be that you may not have the funds to purchase these items and never get a chance in the future.  Even if the non-violent approach was luck-based or required different parameters for victory, the option to have more than one approach would be better than having only one. Preventing players in this manner makes them afraid of failing not because of their own mistakes but because they were never given an importunity to succeed in an impossible situation that lasts beyond one game.  ”Oh Captain, My Captain”  Although my policy towards reviewing games is to leave out mods from the review, the Captain’s Mod is living proof that the seeds for a greater game are within the game’s possibility, yet it’s constrained by the core problem of the difficulty spike and one solution for the end-game. In this mod it expands upon the limited interactions and choices of the base game, allowing for more nuanced responses not only for the player but also for the crew to side with or against the acting captain to create a more vivid experience. Unfortunately, all the new changes comes with more weaponry and tools both the player as well as the enemy can use that makes an already punishing final encounter more difficult and more dissuading from starting a new adventure when the expectation of failure is all that you are left with when you sign off the final entry and leave the game for good.","hours":13.8}
{"funny_percent":0.021130451167715603,"helpful_percent":0.18635631988941573,"review":"This is going to sound like sacrilege, but I cannot recommend this game. I understand that I'm in the minority, and people are likely to dismiss my opinion for daring not to have fallen in love with this game, but I'm sorry, I didn't do it on purpose. I just really, really don't like it.  See, this game bills itself as strategy, but it isn't. It's solitaire, that's what it is. See, in a game of solitaire, luck is more important than strategy. You make choices, yes, but if they pay off rarely depends on skill and mostly on chance. No matter how much practice you have, the fact that most variables are hidden from your sight means that you can't win on skill alone.  This is how this game is. You move from place to place and hope that luck favors you. When you're given a choice you cannot make any considerations because you don't know what lies ahead. You reach the next stop and you find an enemy that falls easy prey to your ship's configuration. Or maybe one that easily counters it and turns you into dust. Or maybe you find nothing. The result is that you never really feel the satisfaction of overcoming a challenge, since the challenge is random. Perhaps the only predictable encounter is the final boss and be prepared for a lot of trial and error.  The difference is that a game of solitaire only lasts a few minutes, while in this game reaching the point where you realize your previous strategy didn't pay off can easily take you more than one hour, with the result that you feel like a lot of your time was wasted.  I know what some people are going to say. \"Oh, you need to play for several more hours before it gets good\". And I'm sorry, but that's BS. My free time is limited. If a game can't provide me with fun after the two hour mark I'm perfectly entitled to call it a lost cause.  I understand that people can be attracted to randomness, and the thrill of not knowing what lies ahead, but this is just too much. I feel like the game is playing me rather than the other way around.","hours":2.9}
{"funny_percent":0.012402260073376949,"helpful_percent":0.13681095857168274,"review":"I have mixed feelings about this game. Its creative and easy to pick up and play, with decision based events that make it feel like you really have a say in how things work out for you in the long run. Its a great game with a solid feel to it, and it's very addictive to keep trying with new ships and crew members. My real problem with it is the luck factor it seems to have. Sometimes you can be floating around and find scrap (currency), new weapons, or random new teammates to join you. But the other half of the time its less than \"fun\" events that get dealt to you for no real reason. You could decide a very cautious run and choose to not interact with any distractions that come your way, and still find yourself in a situation where your ship catches fire as a battle starts, or inside a nebula which deactivate all your shields or weapons, or just up against a random encounter enemy that can wipe your ship because its ridiculously overpowered. You could make the best decisions, have a fully upgraded ship with crazy firepower and shields, with a reliable crew, and still get tripped up in a random event that causes something to go downhill simply because the game feels like it. But that's not what really upsets me, I could deal with that stuff if it wasn't for the final boss. The final boss is extremely aggravating, literally one of the worst difficulty spikes in a game i've ever seen. It's a three stage fight against one mega ship that varies its attacks based on which form it's in. After you defeat one of its forms it fully heals itself with no real explanation or signs of getting weaker, as would be assumed of a ship or enemy that you literally blow apart with each encounter, meanwhile your ship doesn't get to be repaired at all. The final form is a super shielded version of the previous two with a \"secret weapon\" that just HAPPENS to be implemented in its last fight. This \"secret weapon\" launches a barrage of lasers which instantly wipe your shields and damage you no matter what. This barrage is used while the boss' other weapons are still in use, and it is activated quite frequently during this fight. This is not how you establish a boss fight, this is a cheap and boring way to make your game seem difficult. Even with a fully upgraded ship with four shields and over 50% evasion I was wiped out without much of a chance. Im not expecting to jump into the fight and crush the boss without any opposition. This fight should be enjoyable and challenging, rather than some ridiculously overpowered means to halt your well deserved conclusion. I think this is a well made game with some well deserved positive reviews and opinions. The music is captivating and enhances the atmosphere amazingly. The variety in gameplay is more than enough to keep you coming back to try the many ships, crew, weapons, and all kinds of combinations it offers. The game is pleasant to look at and gives you a simple layout that doesn't try to complicate things or clutters the screen with text, and isn't intimidating to pick up and try out. But the only thing that forces me to not recommend this game, despite it's genuine potential to be great, really is that final boss and luck factor. If the constant loss from running into a negative situation isn't enough to discourage players, then the final boss constantly crushing you will. I honestly can't count the number of times I made it to that last stage only to be severely punished for trying to earn the ending despite my best efforts time and time again. This game is half skill and half luck. I really wish it wasn't though.","hours":7.6}
{"funny_percent":0.006551421699587901,"helpful_percent":0.27076484383802923,"review":"This game is really fun and challenging when you start playing it becuase you can feel that the game mechanics give it a lot of depth and you wan't wait to learn how the game works so you can figure out how to win and develop strategies. But as you keep playing it, you slowly begin to realize how wrong you were, and that the reality is there is no depth to the game because everything that happens depends almost entirely on luck and how little anything you actually do matters.  You can play flawlessly, making all the right decisions, buying all the right upgrades to turn your ship into the perfect combat vessel that can dodge most shots, has the shields to absorb whatever manages to get through and still has a powerful enough armament to destroy anything you come across, but it won't matter because in the next battle suddenly you will be forced into a situation that is literally impossible to survive. This isn't fun, this isn't good gameplay, it's just terrible game design (or lack thereof) and I really wish people would stop making excuses for games whose developers bought into the fallacy that \"everything determined by RNG = hard = good game\" because it never works.  And the most frustrating thing is that this is by no means a bad game. It is otherwise very well designed and is actually really fun as long as the RNG isn't arbitrarily killing you off. The only thing the game has to do to improve is to reduce the supremacy of the RNG in determining everything that happens and to let the player's actions have more influence. I don't care if they leave in a \"hardcore mode\" or call less random mode \"baby difficulty\" or whatever, I just want to enjoy playing a game.","hours":413.9}
{"funny_percent":0.009532186640743913,"helpful_percent":0.2554109415738383,"review":"Playing this game feels like glorified series of RNG rolls to determine whether you win or lose. You absolutely need certain pieces of equipment to have any chance of defeating the end boss, and getting them is down to a continuous streak of good luck that you can only partly influence.  FTL would be a great game if it gave a more deterministic agency to the player. It's sad to see a single aspect bringing a game down so much.","hours":30.9}
{"funny_percent":0.04167360547208618,"helpful_percent":0.06846316172425833,"review":"I have a love/hate relationship with FTL. I love it because it’s fun. I hate it because of the roguelike element. My question is why can’t this crowd with the never-ending hard on for roguelikes & permadeath simply erase their own save files when they die? Wouldn’t that solve everything? Couldn’t the devs include a regular save option for us “inferior” gamers who prefer games to be enjoyable instead of miserably frustrating?  In case you don’t know what I’m talking about, there is an option to save in FTL. However, when you die, the game automatically erases your save file. If you try to get cute & alt+tab out then close the game, it will also automatically erase your save file. That means you have to start all the way over again from the beginning. When the devs go out of their way to make safeguards preventing people from enjoying their game, that earns an automatic fail from me.  Also, there is a final boss fight which requires a strategy to beat that you will have to plan for from the start of the game. Not just that, but even if you know which weapons & upgrades you want to invest in, there’s no guarantee you will come across them during your journey to the final boss. Everything changes each time you start a new game to guarantee you won’t know what lies at the next jump point. I cheated by copying my save files into a separate folder after making a successful jump and I still couldn’t quite take down the last form of the final boss.  The sad thing is FTL would be a purely delightful title if I could only play it the way I want to. Other indie roguelikes are poorly designed or unbearably dull, but not FTL. I like not knowing what’s going to happen when I make a jump. I like the feeling of constantly being on the run from the enemy fleet chasing me. I like exploring old ship wrecks, recruiting alien crew members, finding upgrades for my ship, and leveling up my ship’s crew as I play. But I don’t like having to start from scratch because I made one bad jump. Give me a tough challenge and let me figure out how to beat it, but don’t wipe out all of my progress with a cheap death.","hours":7.6}
{"funny_percent":0.01873779322202699,"helpful_percent":0.22443650814541405,"review":"FTL: Faster Than Light has a lot going for it. It's a skillfully built little roguelike that features interesting races, interesting combat and a seemingly infinite number of possibilities. At first. It doesn't take long, however, for the arbitrary number generator and the handful of events to get repatative or even, at times, seemingly broken. If I had a piece of scrap for every time I ran into the same space station on fire, I'd have enough to purchase the extra upgrades that become useless once you realize there's a ship that can shut off O2 censors and watch you suffucate an hour and a half into a well-played campaign.  One of the largest issues is, of course, the Flagship. Now here's where things get dicey, because no doubt there are many people out there poised to commit Seppuku for their favorite roguelike. Even so, it's pretty easy to say that the flagship battle is, at its very core, poorly designed. It's very easy to make something that is difficult, yet not-so-easy to make a boss fight that is challenging. This is when you realize that your hour to two-hour romp through space testing out your new guns and getting your crew skilled enough to shoot space-gnats with fully upgraded shields and thrusters you realize that none of it mattered as you're eradicated in a matter of minutes.   Now, I know what's going to be said, flocks of people will no-doubt rant about the ways the flagship is supposed to be beated, but that's the point. For a game that boasts so many different upgrades, ships, crew configurations, etc. there shouldn't be a way you're \"supposed\" to beat the Flagship. Of course there are going to be builds better than others, but realizing that you had to hunt around for a handful of viable builds or your entire trip was for naught is simply a bad design. It's easy to a soup up a giant ship for players to throw themselves at, and then nod saying, \"Oh, yeah, that's the way you're supposed to do it\" when one of them finally manages to beat the thing and another entirely to create a compelling, well-balanced boss.  In the end, FTL: Faster Than Light is actually a pretty fun little game for all of its flaws, but it just asks way too much of its players without bothering to meet them halfway.","hours":28.2}
{"funny_percent":0.04167035877289837,"helpful_percent":0.27300274937414165,"review":"It's like Groundhog Day in space only instead of Bill Murray it's Aidan Gillen and instead of Groundhog Day it's the plane scene.  4/10","hours":140.9}
{"funny_percent":0.010967744183128026,"helpful_percent":0.06758015693133054,"review":"RNG waste of time and money. Playing this game is just rolling the dice to see whether you get to win or lose, very little actual skill required. The soundtrack is good though.","hours":17.3}
{"funny_percent":0.009845687140370919,"helpful_percent":0.2822312926719284,"review":"Sigh...I...cannot in good faith recommend this game. Not to everyone. Is it bad? Hell no. This game is remarkably polished in a number of aspects. The problem is, the game isn't very fun. At least not in the long run. When you start off, you will be full of wonder, piloting your starship into unknown realms, trying to save the your allies from the rebels! Then you'll die, lose everything and have to start over again. This pattern will repeat for about 20 times before you become super frustrated and give up on the game.  Let me reiterate...FTL is not a bad game. It is damn good. However, it fails in one crucial way. It does not give you a feeling of incremental progress. Some may like the challenge that that brings, but for a rogue-like to be worth your time these days, with so many other rogue-likes out there, it needs to make your time meaningful. FTL is a time waster...it will kill you over and over again and it will be due to randomness, not to any fault of your own. And seldom ever will the game change or improve. Of the over 10 ships to unlock, I got...four. After many failed attempts. By accident. Each death was just as frustratingly stupid and unavoidable as the last.  If you like that, fine, have at it, the game's mechanics are solid, but...FTL just wastes my time. And I cannot recommend it on those merits alone.","hours":22}
{"funny_percent":0.03621289741027831,"helpful_percent":0.28579306651635045,"review":"I don't mind some roguelikes. A few I really enjoy but this one just is just too rng for me. Its needlessly punishing. I've played it every now and again over the years and honetly have no drive to return.  The reason why I am not recomending this is because the game stacks itself against you. You need those random events to play out in a certain way according to your ship/ crew/ what items you have. If they don't then you're screwed. The same event can be encountered with the same dialouge but each time it may have different outcomes. This is easy to learn and figure out however its 70% luck based. Overly difficult to get a few better ships unless you get lucky. Once you get lucky and have better ships it can be easier. 12 hours in on easy and I only have 2. Half the time I don't even make it past the 2nd system... because of that randomness. This isn't a good game design.  What it does well? +music +art style +simplicity +lots of achivements +lots of situations to keep things feeling fresh  I once gave this a 4/5 when I first got it but now? I give FTL a 1 out of 5...","hours":12}
{"funny_percent":0.02996444475843928,"helpful_percent":0.282784337531463,"review":"Polished and seemingly brilliant for the first couple of plays, however , there are two types of roguelikes available to play right now, one is the skill based kind, where if you die, it's mostly your fault. These are good roguelikes. Then there are roguelikes like FTL where luck is more important than any level of skill, these roguelikes are bad, no matter how well designed they seem on the surface.   The sheer number of random co-incidences that need to align perfectly to have any chance of successfully completing a game is rediculous, no matter how well you equip your ship and plan your strategy, one single broken encounter can ruin a hitherto flawless run.  You can have your fledgling ship anhililated on your first jump by a random event, or have your invincible dreadnaught blown away by a lucky missile strike from a random pirate ship. It's tooth snappingly frustrating to do everything correctly and STILL lose because the RNG is so heavilly stacked against you at every turn and eventually, repeatedly dying through no fault of your own becomes tiresome and boring.  It's a crying shame for a game that has so much promise to be so fundamentally broken.","hours":13.8}
{"funny_percent":0.01112896128856743,"helpful_percent":0.12065223935400379,"review":"This takes a certain type of temperment and commitment. I found it a bit rage inducing, but 97% of reviewers love this thing, so what can i say? This game is extremely well regarded.  I don't like pouring all this time into a run, just to have it end in an instant due to bad luck or even small slip on my part. Forget to click a button? You just lost an hour long run... haha, I feel like I'm getting too old for this.  Perhaps rogue-likes just aren't my thing.","hours":5.6}
{"funny_percent":0.006788920533865295,"helpful_percent":0.23856814927709435,"review":"I'd really love to give this game a good review, but the point is, they completely ♥♥♥♥ed up the difficulty. Prior to the Advanced Edition update, the game was scaled in a way that made the trip to the Flagship (final boss) quite challenging and a result of about 50% of your deaths. The boss itself was still fairly hard, but manageable, and was ultimately similar to a more powerful version of the many other random encounters you'd experience in a run.  Now, presumably as a reaction to the many complaints about the game's difficulty, they've made it so that the trip to the Flagship is much, much easier; in fact, in the ~15 hours I've played of it, I haven't gotten close to dying outside of the final area once. To compensate for this, however, the difficulty of the Flagship was astronomically raised. There's literally no strategy to defeating the final boss at all. Its attacks consist entirely of lazily-designed missile and drone spam, and because there's no actual surefire way to directly counter these types of attacks, there's a very good chance you'll be screwed midway through the fight.  The problem that deviates from this is that ultimately, there's only a select few builds that can stand a chance against the final boss. The game punishes you for being creative and attempting different gameplay styles, whereas before, your unique build could legitimately beat the final boss. This wouldn't be that big of a deal in a game like The Binding of Isaac where your performance is highly dependent on how good at the game you are, but in FTL, player skill is simply limited to \"knowing what things to click on.\" Everything beyond that is decided by the computer through RNG.  If the game sounds fun to you, go right ahead and buy it, it's like $10. Just, if I were you, I'd prematurely end my runs before the final boss. There's really no point.","hours":17.4}
{"funny_percent":0.045407278836641675,"helpful_percent":0.19172439108522996,"review":"While my opinion is rivaled greatly, I do not recommend Faster Than Light to the average gamer.  I like rogue-like games and I've played quite a few of them, but this one in perticular feels less like a game that is meant to be played and beaten and more like an RNG Luck based game. Now luck is obviously the main basis of all Rogue-like games (Binding of Issac, Downwell, Diehard Dungeon, etc.) But those games are played in short trails that can end fast but be replayed easily. FTL plays like a game about micromanaging and building yourself up, but when it's so easy to lose all the hard work it becomes frustrating to play.   In a good rogue-like, such as Binding of Issac, it's not hard to upgrade yourself and unlock content that makes the game easier and more replayable, but in FTL unlocking new ships or layouts of ships feels almost impossible. I feel like as though FTL should have more to it to make the game actually beatable after a few play-throughs instead of this grind and buy system. When the game can turn against your favor so easily, grinding makes it more difficult.   Now it's easy to tell people \"Well it's supposed to be difficult, you're supposed to get good at it.\" which makes since in most games that have extreme difficulty curves, but those curves aren't all about how lucky you have to be. There's no real skill in such a heavily randomized game. I've seen debates on the game's \"Easy\" mode and how it is in fact not easy at all. People argued that easy is relative and how the game's settings of easy aren't that the game is easier to play and beat but instead easier to play and survive for longer. Now while this is true and it would be fine in other games, as I stated before, the game is somewhat designed to punish you for attempting to grind and explore.   In conclusion, I feel as though Faster Than Light is not a good rogue-like, yet it is a good game. I, however, do not recommend it due to it's heavily luck based and \"grind to succeed, yet be punished at random\" gameplay. If Faster Than Light is still being worked on, which I doubt, I would like to see the game become more than what it is now to me.","hours":8.3}
{"funny_percent":0.01426465185952307,"helpful_percent":0.2413520258412606,"review":"This game.... how to describe it. At time is can be rewarding and fun, but other times it is completly unfair and down right rage inducing.  YOU WILL DIE. There is no maybe about it. This game is designed to test your willpower.   I have cursed this game and its creaters, but I have to say that I do enjoy playing up till the final battle. That is when this game just does into pure hate mode.","hours":14}
{"funny_percent":0.04089751377963219,"helpful_percent":0.2205961319260121,"review":"In short: This game is frustratingly difficult even on ''Easy'' Mode. Detailed explanation below.  With everything randomized from shop locations to loot to encounters, reliably getting enough money for upgrades, crew and equipment is near impossible.  Easy mode is the equivalent of hard mode on comparable games, and normal is for masochistic people.  You have to perfectly know and manage every single aspect of exploration, timing, gear, upgrades, crew and battle from the get-go even on ''easy'' mode to stand any sort of chance against the enemy, not to mention the highly overpowered final boss.  The tutorial is shallow and insubstantial, teaching you only the bare basics and nothing else, leaving the bulk of mechanics and strategies for you to die over and google.  You can easily get to the final zone of this game in 30 minutes, wich will have the final boss catching you completely off-guard and unprepared.  The problems above are made even worse because said final boss is a good 2-3X bigger and stronger then the hardest enemy in the game and utilises pretty much every single game mechanic to hand you your♥♥♥♥♥  Basically, for you to win the game on ''Easy'' mode;  - The stars have to allign in your favour as to grant you enough favorable encounters for sufficient money to be able to buy the upgrades/crew/equipment needed to survive&kill the enemies&final boss.  - You need to know&understand all game mechanics and flawlessly time&coördinate everything you do.  Granted, if you do pull all of this off i imagine it's the best feeling ever, but the hassle involved just isn't worth it to me.  What was that you said? winning on normal mode? Pfffthahahaha no.  To conclude this all, i'm going to ask you a single question. Does this sound like fun or a hassle to you?  Don't bother buying this game if it's the latter.","hours":7.3}
{"funny_percent":0.030800668726259608,"helpful_percent":0.2256166527259992,"review":"Good ideas, but too hard to be played with fun, and planet should be visited.","hours":4.4}
{"funny_percent":0.03700465307226353,"helpful_percent":0.20849285514982333,"review":"Not much replay value, felt really repetitive after a while. Very lonely.","hours":1.9}
{"funny_percent":0.006510851944646046,"helpful_percent":0.07281987115159202,"review":"The creators of this game are paranoid extremists who think that save files are so evil that their game doesn't even keep a backup of the persistence file recording your progress. Which I have just learned the hard way when a power failure wiped out not only my progress in the current playthrough, but also all record of the previously won ones and the ships I unlocked during their course. Steam cloud of course synchronized the wiped-clean save file, because why not.  I like the idea of \"ironman\" no-load-game-allowed gameplay (although I don't appreciate making it compulsory), but taking it to a level where there isn't even a backup file, presumably due to fear that players might (shock and horror!) try to cheat the system and load the backup save after a defeat, is just ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥.  Which is a real pity because the game is otherwise excellent and worthy of high praise.","hours":92}
{"funny_percent":0.009744911798341915,"helpful_percent":0.02504739344361917,"review":"The game does a lot of things right, but for me the bad things overshadow the good. The only real issue with combat is the evasion/dodge system, which makes combat unnecessarily inconsistent and bogs down an otherwise great combat system. Inconsistency is the main problem with this game. There are random events that have X% chance to f**k you over. And they are extremely common. For a game so focused on taking chances in events it sure is unforgiving for those that actually do. You just lost 3 of your 7 crew-members and most of your hull because you got invaded by 6 Mantis, while being attacked by a strong ship? (actual event, 4 Mantis through random event, 2 more teleporting in from enemy ship) Tough luck. START OVER. The game turns into this gigantic grind of trying to succeed in RNG event after RNG event, until you finally succeed in enough of them to win. Don't like grinding or getting f**cked over by RNG? Look elsewhere.","hours":29.8}
{"funny_percent":0.03391623606364459,"helpful_percent":0.04446249799594286,"review":"The game is incredible and has some good mechanics and a lot of strategy, but i feel it fails as a roguelike in my opinion. What I find interesting about roguelike's personally are the endless amount of combonations you can do to either make a run challenging, fun, easy, or whatever but the amount of availability in this game falls short. There isn't much driving factor to replay the game over and over because it all feels the same but just a different challenge, no real narrative, not a lot of hidden secrets, nothing to search for other than running to the 8th stage and battling the mothership. This game needs more diversity to me. again by no means is this a bad game, it just doesn't have a lot of replay value in my opinion, which is extremely important to me as a roguelike fanatic.","hours":44.1}
{"funny_percent":0.045548700208499285,"helpful_percent":0.16755122055342486,"review":"I have tried to find a single reason why anyone enjoys FTL. And I can't find it. After 30 hours of not winning a video game, you get tired. This game is really just not fun.  Let's start with the event system. One of the main issues with the event system is a lack of random chances. The same thing happens every time. Instead of \"explore astroid field, 30 percent chance of success.\" You get \"lose five HP everytime you click this option.\"  Furthermore, the lack of random events suck the game dry of replayableity. After 30 hours of gameplay I have seen every single event. Which makes the \"die die again\" model that FTL is trying to achieve insufferable.  It should also be noted that every single random event is fairly awful. There are a couple of good events that don't lead to your ship simply getting blown to bits for a huge ton of HP. But odds are that you'll get a constant stream of negative events.  Next, we should move onto the shops. Effectively, you will get the same list of weapons in every single store ever created. You only seem to ever get Lasers, Beams, Missles and/or Bombs, and drones. That sounds pretty diverse and it sounds like the weapon depth is great. Well just to give you an idea, beams are completely useless in this game. Because they don't pierce shields and are only useful at the early stages of the game. So you only have two choices, Lasers or Missles. Of which, you will quickly run out of missles.   It should be noted that I might be wrong. But so far, the shop RNG has been completely awful throughout the game. And has left me to assume that these are the only weapons in existence.   Moving onto fighting. Boarding Drones are basically broken in this game. If you destory a boarding drone, the enemy can simply pop out another in literally two seconds. If you're lucky, you can break the drone bay in time. Of course ion drones are even more unbalanced. An ion drone has the ability to walk around, zapping all your rooms and crew every five seconds. Again, no point in destorying the ion drone because another one will be sent shortly in a micro second.  Of course, odds are that you will need at least a minium of level two shields. Unfortunately, upgrading the shields costs scrap and a huge chunk of your scrap wallet that could be used to buy weapons. So either you end up in a situation where you have no guns to fire at the enemy expect for your puny burst laser. Or you end up in a situation where you have no shields and make a glass cannon.  And overall, this game has a lack of depth. It really doesn't have much in the way of depth. It feels like you're always getting the same weapons and shops over and over again. With the same events and overall, it's just boring.   Engine upgrades are a cheap alterative to shields. Seems like a good idea right? 25 percent envasion should logically equal \"every forth laser misses.\" You would be quite wrong. As volley after volley of laser hits you on the nose. Missles will constantly blow you up. Of course, when you fire your own weapons, either the lasers and/or missles miss the enemy. Or the lasers get \"resisted.\" Whatever that means since this game does not have a tutorial.  Moving onto replayability. Literally every sector feels like the first sector. Sure the music changes slightly. You get different ships in each sector. But overall, it's not really all that different to the first sector. Again making the whole \"die die\" again feel like nothing more then a massive headache.   Because you will fly through the same sectors. Fight the exact same enemies with virtually little difference from the first batch of ships. Then you'll die, fight another identical batch of ships in virtually the same sectors. Until you literally want to pull your hair out of your skull. The word's \"repetitive\" can not even come close to describing this game.  On the brightside, the game's graphics are simply amazing. Despite the lack of ALT-Tabing. If you want to enable alt-tabing, you'll have to hack the config.ini in order to allow boarderless windowed mode. The audio itself is amazing. The OST is worth every dollar I spent.  Overall: 6/10 Graphics: 9/10 Sound: 10/10 Replayability: 3/10 Depth: 4/10  Overall, I just can't recommand it. Simply because the game loses it's fun. Sure, for the first twenty hours, you might have a bit of fun. Then you just get to the point where the game loses it's luster. Eventally, you will get tired of the die die again model. Because it's boring. Games like Binding of Issac execute the die die die again model in such a way that you always get new powers, new unlocks. New characters every time. But this game refuses to reward the player for continuing to play it. Which limits the replayablity.","hours":27.3}
{"funny_percent":0.04797156195753734,"helpful_percent":0.021658280856154732,"review":"Any game that doesn't utilize a save feature belongs in the past. Sure it makes gameplay more intense. But I'm sure if I had to have sex with my girl in front of her over-protective dog while he was tied up with a rope that was on fire it would be a more intense experience as well. Sometimes, I just want to nut.","hours":549.5}
{"funny_percent":0.047317379156425324,"helpful_percent":0.25787769548035067,"review":"This game was fun for an hour. After I just got frustrated. I could never keep enough scrap to upgrade my ship while keeping my ship supplied with missiles, fuel, or drone parts. You basically choose which one you want to have and roll the dice to see how far you make it without the rest. Incredibly frustrating.","hours":7}
{"funny_percent":0.02555395766817442,"helpful_percent":0.051952579261286824,"review":"This is like Super Meat Boy except you're the football manager instead of the football player, so it's a lot slower and you have the time and distance from the action to be lucid enough for it to actually be frustrating, and you're too involved in the process to be able to not really care. It's probably a lot better if you're baked.","hours":15.4}
{"funny_percent":0.0265871770722077,"helpful_percent":0.008302999008027534,"review":"Not much replay value, felt really repetitive after a while. Very lonely.","hours":1.9}
{"funny_percent":0.015366982214095916,"helpful_percent":0.013456150438775127,"review":"The Game seems a bit unbalanced and well tested. While some tactics are extremely powerful, other items are completely useless. This makes the game boring after a short time.","hours":22.9}
{"funny_percent":0.01215263902341851,"helpful_percent":0.2839246010811372,"review":"This game was fun for an hour. After I just got frustrated. I could never keep enough scrap to upgrade my ship while keeping my ship supplied with missiles, fuel, or drone parts. You basically choose which one you want to have and roll the dice to see how far you make it without the rest. Incredibly frustrating.","hours":7}
{"funny_percent":0.04764360929447114,"helpful_percent":0.296498754115813,"review":"It's a great game that seriously suffers from the lack of detail polish. Every time i go for a cheeky run, i keep getting reminded of why i put it down - horrendously unfair RNG. It's better than it's been, but it will inevetably break your heart.   Damn shame, because the base gameplay and aestethics of it is phenomenal.","hours":29.7}
{"funny_percent":0.042013818990712604,"helpful_percent":0.19418127713335845,"review":"The game really does seem great, but the high level of randomness pretty much ruins it for me.  So you have to restart when you die, I get it. I own multiple games that play that way (The Long Dark, Kingdom, Project Zomboid, ...). No problem with that.  I tried playing FTL multiple times on EASY difficulty to learn the game first. I progress through the game like a knife through butter, then suddenly, out of nowhere (sometimes early on, sometimes late-game) a ship shows up and blows me to pieces in just a few moments.  Ok, you may argue that I should \"be prepared\" for something like that, which is exactly what I WANT to do, yet:  - It's completely random where Stores are, drastically lowering your chances of getting any guns, droids, people or other resources; - Even when you find a Store, it's completely random what will be available. Some offer people, some offer drones or guns ... If you focus primarily on droids but you don't come across a Store offering droids or droid-related resources, ... too bad; - One of those difficult ships can come late-game, meaning you probably already passed multiple Stores or found good loot, giving you a bigger chance, but you might just as well encounter one early on, meaning you may not have seen any Store or found any loot yet.   I love randomness in games to improve replayability, but the downside with this game is that you seem to depend SO much on this randomness that it often doesn't matter how well-prepared you try to be. If you use an Engi-ship and focus on droids, but there is not one Store offering good droids/weapons or found it through loot, then there is little else you can do. Ok, you can upgrade shields etc, but that only prolongs the inevitable.  When you have just your first single ion weapon with a single offensive droid, then all you can try to do is time your shot exactly so that the enemy shield is down by the time your droid shoots at it. Unfortunately, if you still only have that setup and an enemy with multiple shields and droids comes by, you're screwed because their shields will be back up long before you get any of your shots through.  You could try escaping the battle, but that is if it's charged up in time and you're lucky enough the enemy ship didn't destroy your required rooms/personnel for it.","hours":6.3}
{"funny_percent":0.04055588851114085,"helpful_percent":0.10637028376672386,"review":"A game that I wish I could love, but unfortunately, its made with so many little ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ instadeath moments that I have no choice to give it a no. In fact, a resounding no.  The game is simply: try your best, do amazingly well, have a super strong ship, then INSTADEATH from some impossible to predict source.  The end goal is the enemy fleets mothership. Takes about an hour to get there.  No matter what you do, you get about a 33% hit chance against the mothership. I have 7 lasers. that means 4 hit. 5 if im lucky. Oh wait, mothership has 4 shields. LOL  Oh yeah, and even though I have 52% chance to dodge, literally every single missile hits me. But I somehow dodge every single laser, which would have hit my shields instead.   Anyway, the point is the game is just a bunch of random number generators, and random events.  Unless you spend hours online looking up what each blurb of text means, and the associated percent chance of good vs bad, you might as well not buy it.   Entire game based on RNG scaled toward ♥♥♥♥ing you over??? Is this a game or torture?  Can't beat the game without looking up RNG table guides???  It is simply an exercise in playing for an hour, losing everything to some impossible to predict event (or ♥♥♥♥♥♥ game design), playing again for an hour, getting instant killed by the mothership, playing for an hour, losing everything to something else.   I would say I played about 20-25 run throughs of the game. Maybe 1 or 2 of those felt like fair deaths, where I learned something, or made a true mistake. The other 18? Just random, unforseeable things, completely destroying me. Or the mothership completely decimating me, no matter what strategy you use to beat it (aside from meta gaming and using aforementioned RNG walkthroughs).  Anyway. Cool concept and mechanics, but the game itself is absolutely bogus. Completely ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ RNG killfest.","hours":25}
{"funny_percent":0.016884267061724346,"helpful_percent":0.12769330442351734,"review":"You are the commander of a star ship, travelling from planet to planet, while being hunted by rebels, which forces you to proceed to the next star system after a certain amount of turns. On every planet you visit, something will happen, may it be good or bad for your progress.  On the positive side, this is one of the better developed and thought out games i have played. Everything is well explained and learnt fast, while the game itself requires tough decisions and much planning.  Additionaly, the replayability is high, since theres lots of stuff to unlock, universes are randomly created, and with the currently released, free expansion, everything has expanded.  On the negative side, randomness plays a bigger role in this game than strategy (which means, that no matter how hard you think and plan- you WILL lose. Not always, but too often to speak of a skill based game, and often enough, to make playing a frustrating experience, at least for me. In my personal oppinion, a good game should be always winable). Every event, and the game relies on them, is randomly chosen, so you might as well be lucky or screwed from the beginning, which took out a lot of fun for me. (One example: In the second star system, after careful playing and doing well so far, i got to a planet where all shields are disabled and was attacked. The enemy ship used a drone, which damaged my ships systems significantly, so that i wasnt able to charge my engines and flee, while the enemy ship fired with laser and beam weapons, which damaged my ship further and caused fire. I ended up getting destroyed, with no chance of success).  I really wished there was more room for personal influence, than no choice (being attacked) or a/b choices, which lead to a) (move on) nothing or b) (stay) being attacked or encounter a random event, all the time, where the player doesnt even know the chances of possible outcomes. Just make a decision and hope the best. Additionaly, the game is extremely hard, to a degree where it seriously gets frustrating. Having to fight all the time, and getting hardly anything in return is no fun. You dont even get to prepare yourself, since the difficulty begins right from the start.  All in all, a very good idea and well developed, but suffering from a lack of refinement...","hours":5.2}
{"funny_percent":0.04083194314491448,"helpful_percent":0.26545910282789903,"review":"I'l love to rate the game better, but the difficulty spike in the last sector is a honestly just a practice of how long you can prolong frustration before finally uninstalling the game. I understand that it's supposed to be a difficult roguelike game but 20 hours in I'm not seeing anymore progression.   firstly there are three conditions for potentially unlocking ships:  1) beat the final boss. 20 hours in I've had no less than 5 runs with maxed out shields, engine systems, and weapons systems on the initial ship with people maxed out of their abilities to use said systems, to have all that rendered meaningless because the enemy ships rarely miss and come decked out with multiple burst lasers destroying your shields and missle systems that rarely ever miss. and btw good luck hitting them, you're lucky to hit them with 50% of your entire volley. and they have completely decked out systems with tons of people on board.  2) you can complete quests that you don't know are quests that unlock ships and usually revolve around items that even if you KNOW are meaningful to unlock a ship, have no inherent value themselves and unless the gods bless you with at least 3 rng quests hitting in the same run, are going to be a giant waste of time hindering your meager chances at even touching the final boss.  3) each ship has a set of missions to unlock new layouts. the engi ship I unlocked almost immediately but holy crap have fun with the kestral. those missions are the most rng nonsense I've ever seen. IE have 6 different aliens all on the same ship. but I've had 8 runs in a row where you start with 3 humans, and never run into anything but mantis/rebel/slug sectors in the entire star map. HOW ARE YOU SUPPOSED TO GET 6 UNIQUE ALIENS GAME!   the game may be roguelike but the systems are so contrived that it takes massive luck to unlock any progression, and the early ships are as effective as a wet paper bag against the final boss even on easy mose which is all I've played on thus far.  SO basically the issue with the game is that progression to unlock variety in this game is so amazingly RNG based that unless you're blessed with amazing luck good luck getting anywhere. I kind've wish I could get my 20 hours back at this point. go play binding of isaac","hours":20.8}
{"funny_percent":0.019705673781388523,"helpful_percent":0.12598150135547084,"review":"\"Normal\": Is a difficulty that should make the player try hard on their first try, and be an ok-ish breeze on their 2nd try. \"Easy\": Should be a game where the player can win despite making flawed choices and mistakes.  Your game: \"Easy\" = Hard for other games. It's so hard that it makes me not want to play/recommend this game to anyone else. It's so difficult it makes the game repulsive.  You've got good ideas, but poorly executed.","hours":10.2}
{"funny_percent":0.0028284669882350233,"helpful_percent":0.20051179224032317,"review":"RNGesus is not with this game. Most enjoyable rogue-likes combine elements of skill and RNG. Generally skill can counteract RNG ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥t and RNG can help fill in skills, but of course it can only get you so far. Ultimately it's about combing them both to get through the gameplay elements. Dungeons of Dredmor is a good, solid one for having crafting elements, skills that improve base stats with all weapons, and many item slots so you'll be at least getting some decent gear.   FTL combines the need to explore every corner of the universe with random events you have no defense against, a time limit, and a final boss that flies out of no where. It's like the final boss in Nuclear Throne, but instead of having played for 20-30 minutes, you've played 4 hours. Your frustration and complaint is paltable. I think people enjoy it primarily for being sci-fi with some exploration elements, or for the mods. I just can't see it. This game is irredeemable in my eyes.","hours":23.4}
{"funny_percent":0.002385434224496996,"helpful_percent":0.27985253647657465,"review":"Update: This is a re-review now that I have logged 50+ hours into FTL. With a better understanding of the game I hope this review will be more informed.  FTL is a space sci-fi where the player pilots a ship equipped with weapons, shields, engines and other systems. The main goal of the game is to travel through solar systems to the \"exit\" which takes you to a different sector of space with more solar systems...etc. until you reach the Federation Base at the last sector, to warn them about the Rebel invasion.  The graphics are fairly simplistic or \"bad\" in my opinion. You will turn off the music after an hour of listening to the floaty, bongy, annoying midi loops and the storyline is non-existent. So you might be asking yourself, \"What does this game have to offer?\"  The core gameplay mechanics are: get into a fight with an enemy ship, destroy the ship, receive XP or \"scrap\". Use XP/scrap to upgrade your ship, buy new systems and face bigger, stronger enemies. This can be done many ways, from teleporting over boarding parties to kill the enemy crew, blowing up the ship outright or attacking key systems like lifesupport and watching them all suffocate...muhahahah!  Couple of problems that crop up.  There is no aiming in this game...at all. Shots fired are interpereted by the RNG and then it decides whether a shot \"hit\" or \"missed\". Evasion (controlled by your engines and bridge) is the only thing that affects \"hit\" percentage. It can be upgraded but it isn't very accurate. Watching an enemy fire 4 shots at you and have 100% of them hit, while your 3 shots all miss, will become a common occurance, usually about half-way through the game.  Everything is controlled by the RNG (Random Number Generator). Loot drops from enemies, quests (their appearance and reward), and enemy ships, store inventories, literally EVERYTHING in the sector is decided immediately after you first enter a sector. Let me give you some examples.  1. Enemy encounter decisions are predetermined before the battle beings.  Say you enter a system and fight an enemy and that enemy offers to surrender to you.  That enemy in that particular system will ALWAYS surrender once the ship is damaged to a certain degree. Without knowing that, the player could think that slowly attacking an enemy will CAUSE a surrender but it doesn't. It was decided by the RNG that enemy would surrender in that system before you even jumped to that location.  2. All loot drops have been predetermined BEFORE the fight ever begins.  Kill one enemy in one system and you receive 20 scrap, 3 drone parts, 2 fuel. Kill something else and only receive 8 scrap. Both rewards were already predeterimned when you first entered the sector. This is the reason for one of the play \"strategies\" used to navigate a sector. Using the cursor the player back tracks from the exit to find the longest possible route. This is the \"scratch off lottery ticket\" mechanic. You travel to as many systems as possible in the hopes that the outcome is either free resources or large loot drops because each loot drop has already been decided. You're playing the odds at this point. Hit as many systems as possible and hope it pays off.  Sometimes it works, while other times you will end of exhausting your fuel and find yourself stranded with the rebel fleet right behind you.  3. Choose your own adventure text options and also predetermined before you even make it to that system.  \"You find a planet with a lifeform on it, do you go down to check?\" 1. Yes, 2. No. The initial prompt and possible outcomes of either decision have already been decided. This gets really annoying. Each option has a potential negative outcome. Having the right crew member/item can create Blue options but those only increase your chance of getting a positive outcome. It doesn't guarantee it and because it's RNG based, it is possible for all choices to produce a negative outcome.  Another problem about this game is that is relies heavily on Skinner Box tactics. Below is a video from Extra Credits that does a great job explaining skinner box mechanics in relation to video games.   YouTube™ Video: The Skinner Box - How Games Condition People to Play More - Extra Credits  Views: 761,488 Engaging design is extremely important in games, but too often simple reward systems are used to keep players playing longer or spending more money on in-game purchases.   Upgrades vs Repairs: That is the Question.  When your ship receives hull damage, it can only be repaired with scrap. Receive too much damage and you die and start over from the very beginning. Since scrap is your XP, any repairs should be treated as an XP penalty. It becomes a balancing act of repairing your ship just enough so that you don't sacrifice too much scrap to prevent upgrading systems or purchasing weapons, since without them you will get killed.   Clever fight strategies usually don't help you as the longer it takes to kill an enemy, the greater the chance you have of taking damage and thus the larger the XP penalty. Min-maxing becomes the name of the game. Go all weapons and shields, or all boarding parties, all drones...etc. But because of the RNG any strategy you build for can be instantly undone in one encounter.   You put a ton of XP into weapons and shields, you end up fighting enemys with teleporters or projectiles both of which can go past shields, and teleporters never miss.   Go combat and defensive drones. The enemy only needs to disable your drone bay and that's it.  Go teleporters (for boarding parties) or projectiles. You can end up facing enemies with super shields that have to be knocked down before your missles or teleporters will work on the enemy ship. There isn't enough scrap to go multiple strategies or to hedge your bets. You simply pour it all into one thing and hope for the best.   The enemy always gets the first shot (without an expensive augmentation) and if they take out your one system that your strat hinges on you will spend the fight trying to repair and hoping they miss or hoping their AI screws up and causes them to attack an empty room or different system.   You win most fights because the enemy ship AI is dirt stupid. You will see it teleport ion bombs into systemless rooms (where they do zero damage), fire beam based weapons into your shields (which most can't penetrate) and teleport boarding parties into your airlock (lock the doors and vent atmo for an easy kill)  The difficulty/challenge doesn't occur from the complexity of the game itself. You know what to do, when to do it, why your're doing it. But the game has to ALLOW you to do \"X\" when you need to do it. It simply doesn't matter if you have the best weapons, the best crew, or the best reflexes when an RNG determines if every attack or defend will go in your favor. Or if it will stack the deck against you later on...  The Bottom line...  I won't lie, RNG: Advanced Edition IS addictive. Horribly, ridiculously addictive. Read other reviews, or comments and you'll hear about how many hours a person played their first time. I myself logged 12 hours in my first sitting and as I stated before I've put in 50+ now. I've since deleted the game from my machine (for the 3rd time) and I can truthfully say, that I have never had a LESS enjoyable gaming experience than when I was playing FTL.    Inconclusion: Bad graphics + BAAAAD music + bad gameplay + zero storyline = a bad game. Look else where if you want a space faring adventure. The only thing that prevents this game from being an EVIL pile of **** (it's still a pile of ****) was that they didn't add in microtransactions...probably because they ran out of time.  Spoiler: The final boss is the same thing you've been doing since the beginning of the game. Lolz!","hours":128.2}
{"funny_percent":0.035524011599901366,"helpful_percent":0.18136023451405406,"review":"This game used to be great. Heavy tweaks to fleet and luck make it a bore and usually too frustrating.","hours":29.4}
{"funny_percent":0.004032281268104498,"helpful_percent":0.22086466427781729,"review":"Cool Concept. 100% luck.","hours":211.2}
{"funny_percent":0.013549464118858157,"helpful_percent":0.21385582201625244,"review":"I really wanted to like this game, but i just cant reccomend it. For everyone who downvotes this review immediately: ♥♥♥♥ off. Now for those of you who actually want to read WHY i think this is a bad game: carry on! This game does a lot of things right, such as: A phenominal soundtrack An orignal(ish) Idea Varying Gameplay And it's fun to play!  \"These all sound great, so why did you downvote this game?\"  Well, I think the game is fun, just very poorly executed, and i will explain:  1. This game is very luck reliant: It's very hard to win this game, and that by itself is fin, it's a permadeath rogue-like. However, whether you win or lose doesn't have much to do with skill. If you get lucky by finding good items in shop, then you basically get a free win. And there are only a few builds that can actually WIN the game, so the build you may enjoy using could be LITERALLY IMPOSSIBLE TO WIN WITH. And that doesn't seem fun or fair. I think if you're using a really ♥♥♥♥♥♥ build it should be significantly HARDER to win, but not downright impossible. And that pisses me off.  2. Not really a sense of progression: The only real progression you get, aside from random encounters and making so far in the game, is to beat the flagship, and let me tell you, that♥♥♥♥♥♥is goddamn near impossible, as previously stated. So it seems like you're losing over and over without any progress, and life feels pointless and everyone has a bad time.  Honestly, it's a pretty solid game, but the fact that it's literally IMPOSSIBLE to win unless certain cirumstances happen, It's no longer a game, it's a gamble. It's no longer up to skill, but luck. And i don't want to gamble everytime i play, i want to learn and use my knowledge to win the game. And with FTL, I just can't do that.  Play at your own risk.  ","hours":19.1}
{"funny_percent":0.0440967296527406,"helpful_percent":0.09454966849781866,"review":"(Before you downvote me, know that the question is \"Do you recommend this game?\" not \"Did you think this game was good?\" Regardless of my opinions on the latter, the review itself is still my discouraging people from playing it. I don't care how good it is. I can't recommend FTL. Please judge with that discrepancy in mind.)  I'm new to the rogue genre. I don't wholly know what to expect from a game of this category. But with that said, I can't recommend FTL on the basis that the final boss is next to impossible. On Easy.  Making a final boss fair, balanced, and complementing an RNG-based progression is no doubt a challenging thing to do. If you're going to relegate a player's freedom to what chance gifts them, yet require virtually everything in the book at the end, you have your work cut out for you as a game designer.  I can't say FTL succeeded in that respect.  Listen. FTL is a superb game, well-crafted, originally-themed, intelligently-designed, and lovingly-portrayed. That still doesn't mean I have to recommend it. I admire challenging titles, games that force players to use an ounce of brainpower or a modicum of dexterity. However, as another reviewer said, how do you unlock better ships? Beat the flagship. How do you beat the flagship? Unlock better ships. To have so little a reward for so much heartache and \"cheating\" the random system is not worth it. I don't have a probelm dying over and over; I have a problem with not having control over a lot of it.  It is a shame the rest of the title is diminshed by this one, frustrating aspect.","hours":12.8}
{"funny_percent":0.006457463975894151,"helpful_percent":0.20457921203952964,"review":"I want to like it, I really do. The concept is there but it's best summed up by saying it's a rogue-like, repetitive, completely random game of chance. And it's a race to boot. It's not like you get to fly around at your leisure and explore the galaxy in a ship fighting pirates and building your dream vessel. The whole goal of the game is to outrun, or stay ahead of, the rebel fleet. Nothing else. You're given almost no time to take side trips to develop your crew or ship because if you do the rebel fleet catches up to you and you are dead. But if you race to the end you are too weak to beat the rebel flagship, which is THE end of the game.  Great idea for a game. Too limited in scope.","hours":4.6}
{"funny_percent":0.014065124013009534,"helpful_percent":0.2861658531849794,"review":"Re doing my review with a more level head. Also this is more of a neutral review though I still can't bring myself to recommend it.  FTL is a fun and relaxing game. The only thing that really messes that up for me is the insane RNG based difficulty. I like challenge in games especially if it's a rogue-like or rogue-lite, however most of the challenge is based off of chance which most of the time will never be in your favor. The game will constantly put you in impossible situations that can bring your playthrough to a bitter end.  Even easy mode feels impossible, but for what its worth its not a terrible game and I know i'm in the minority when I say I'm not too crazy about it though I love its soundtrack. The game definitely has a charm to it which keeps me coming back occasionally like some sort of masochist.  Expect to die in many unfair ways. I've played for 12 hours at the time of this review and have not beaten the game once.  My advice is to wait for a sale. I paid only 2 dollars for it and got over 10 hours so I say I got my money's worth.","hours":13.2}
{"funny_percent":0.03269813631695372,"helpful_percent":0.11199236690800571,"review":"This game has great potential, but the execution is horrible. The learning curve isn't the problem, nor are the battle mechanics. Even the layout is fine. There are two major problems: the limitations of gameplay; and the lack of limitation of enemies early on.  You can't go back to a place you went to previously, so if you get some currency and want to go buy the item you couldn't afford before, you can't. It could be a regular space station and the game still won't let you go back there.  You can battle enemies in the first place you go, but it's so randomized that you may get an enemy that is unbeatable at your current stage in the game. This is the main reason people constantly die in this game. You are very limited in your options, but the computer random generator has no limitation. You can be the best player in the world and still constantly die in this game due to bad luck. I can't recommend a game where winning the game depends entirely on luck.","hours":4.2}
{"funny_percent":0.014745828153491814,"helpful_percent":0.20449689975485,"review":"Honestly, i really wanted to like this game..... but it is just way too hard to be fun. Like others have said, this game is all about luck. the only way to play this game is to exploit every possible cheap tactic you can think of and hope to god that you dont run into a hardcore ship that completely rapes you in 10 seconds. If your prone to rage quitting games, steer clear of this one......","hours":69.5}
{"funny_percent":0.0480253552371133,"helpful_percent":0.1749788168612756,"review":"Pros -Ship management -Combat -Items -Loot  Cons -Easy mode is harder than normal -You cannot beat the game in the early runs -The RNG is horrible (tell me why I'm fighting a 2 shield level ship with 3 weapons in the first sector please) -Scrap management (too much spending on repairs means not buying upgrades) -The RNG does not scale well  -RNG needs a lot of work still  I just don't feel like continuing to play a game where I can be doing so well (relatively) and then die because the RNG decided to spawn something way out of my league.","hours":3.3}
{"funny_percent":0.03556062007945176,"helpful_percent":0.18589734102220923,"review":"This game has great potential, but the execution is horrible. The learning curve isn't the problem, nor are the battle mechanics. Even the layout is fine. There are two major problems: the limitations of gameplay; and the lack of limitation of enemies early on.  You can't go back to a place you went to previously, so if you get some currency and want to go buy the item you couldn't afford before, you can't. It could be a regular space station and the game still won't let you go back there.  You can battle enemies in the first place you go, but it's so randomized that you may get an enemy that is unbeatable at your current stage in the game. This is the main reason people constantly die in this game. You are very limited in your options, but the computer random generator has no limitation. You can be the best player in the world and still constantly die in this game due to bad luck. I can't recommend a game where winning the game depends entirely on luck.","hours":4.2}
{"funny_percent":0.022997150156720127,"helpful_percent":0.09077626868255337,"review":"Ok, so I must admit, this game looked boring at first, but the overwhelmingly positive reviews got me hooked. The game actually suprised me by being better than it first looked, but not good enough and here is why:  I realise my opinion is somewhat deviant, but I don't believe this game is for everyone despite the high reviews. The game is suprisingly hard even on easy. Many times, your fate will depend on chance, whether you meet an enemy ship that is many times better than the previous ones, or the enemy will board your ship by random in large numbers, killing all your crew. You will start over a lot, and with different tactics and a lot of luck, you will probably succeed at some point. If you are OK with this and have more patience than me, I actually do recommend you buing this otherwise fun game.  For me though, I will play something else.","hours":3.6}