{"review":"It doesn't actually feel like a real universe, there are no planetary physics and gravity is the same on all planets. There are no actual solar systems. The planets don't rotate around a sun but are stationary, sitting together in a blob. The moons don't even go around the planets.  All of the various wonders of the universe (neutron stars, supernovas, pulsars...etc) are entirely absent.  There are no stars, they're just part of the skybox but you can't fly to them.  The 18 quintillion planets that was so heavily marketed isn't impressive when you realize what that actually means: if you took 11 things and come up with 50 variations for each, that is close to 18 quintillion combinations. Most planets are entirely the same but with different bumps and colors, they have the same objects on them and largely the same resources. Once you've seen the first dozen planets, you've seen them all.  There is no actual differences between the ships, except the number of inventory slots. There are no ships specializing for say speed or combat.  You don't have a sense of scope / scale to your journey. In the galactic map you can see other stars but there's no sense of where you are in relation to the center of the universe. Likewise you don't have a way to track where you were. No mapping or history, waypoints or other ways of tracking your progress.   There needs to be a way to see how you're progressing and also give some meaning to how far you've gone.  You can't actually fly between these systems or go into say the dark space or outer asteroid belt. The only way to travel between them is to open up the map and click warp, which initiates a loading screen animation and loads up the new planets. There is no deep space. You feel like you're in an instance with 3 or 4 planets that are mostly the same, then you load up a new skybox with a new set of similar planets. It's nothing like say Space Engine, where you actually do get a true sense that you're in a real universe.  You can't even fly your ship. You can't fly low across a planet as there is an invisible boundary and you can't crash your ship. The controls are terrible, it has none of the complexity of other space flight sims.  You can't manually land your ship, you simply press a button for it to autoland. Tons of other maneuvers (like entering a space station) are entirely autopilot. The asteroids which are everywhere have insane pop-in issues, they only show up like 50 meters in front of you.  The freight ships don't move, they just sit there passively forever. They add zero gameplay depth.  The space stations are all basically the same.  The planets are littered with outposts, all identical and with a single NPC alien standing still and staring into the wall.  The NPCs are entirely shallow, there is literally no point to even talking to them since they never say anything interesting and simply give you something random you likely don't need. Even the automated quest giving NPCs in Bethesda games that hand out those Radiant AI quests would be a massive improvement.  All of the monoliths are the same, it's nothing but a chore to chase them down. The words you learn don't add any depth to your interactions with the aliens, since they never have anything interesting to say anyway.  There are no actual biomes on each planet. Each planet is the same no matter where you land.  The animals are build on 14 different skeleton designs, with a bunch of random animal parts scrapped on top of each section to maximize the number of permutations and there is no attempt to make the animal make any sense in it's environment or have anything unique in it's behavior. The animals have no evolutionary history and their behavior is incrediby shallow.  There are no tall trees like were shows in E3, they're all saplings. There are no large forests, no large creatures. There are no large valleys, huge mountain peaks, no giant volcanos, all terrain is uniformly similar across planets.  The grinding which makes up most of the game is not only boring, but frustrating due to the completely messed up inventory management.  The interface is absolutely atrocious. It's amazing that it can be messed up this bad, the fact that we need a mod just to remove the requirement that you have to hold each click for a second speaks volumes.   You need to load up a menu to do anything, and the menus are terribly designed and completely unintuitative.  The game is a technical mess. It looks like♥♥♥♥♥yet runs with all sorts of framerate issues.  The traveling on foot is insanely slow and tedious. There should have been a buggy or car, or at least some sort of fast jet pack like in Tribes.  It fails as a survival game since nothing in the game leaves you threatened. Each planet is seeded with abundant resources, and the few things that do attack you are easily defeated. Compare to minecraft where there's a very definite risk / reward system to exploring a deep cave system. Nothing really threatens you in a meaningful way.  The different minerals and resources don't really matter. Since most of the upgrades to explore the universe are yours within the first hour / two hours all the rest are kind of nice add ons.  There's no challenge to exploring. There's very little combat and what combat there is is very boring.  Inside a solar system there's no way to decide if a planet is interesting or not without actually visiting it. There should be some 'classification' of the planets e.g. class M, class X, etc that allows you to say a certain type of planet might be safe vs unsafe.  All planets are accessible right from the start of the game. I was excited about the idea of acid planets, radioactive planets, cold planets ... I was thinking that in order to explore a radioactive planet you'd need to craft some special gear. There was a pretty obviously gameplay loop where the dangerous planets had better minerals / ruins / whatever but were very hard to explore. Instead every planet is basically just a copy of the others.  The constant need to recharge things, which don't really serve a purpose. It makes the game very grindy without any positive feedback. Instead of feeling free to explore the world around me I feel annoyed that if I see something cool it means 30 seconds of tedium while I mine the abundant plutonium. I end up not landing and exploring because of how annoying it is that to take off again I have to enter a menu and recharge my ship.  None of the aliens interact with each other or have any sort of AI other than 'walk around a bit'.   There's nothing to sit and watch. An occasional ship will fly overhead but they don't do anything. You never really see a battle take place or the ships acting in any sort of interesting manner.","hours":47.8,"funny_percent":0.0344336937962436,"helpful_percent":0.941946499715424}
{"review":"We need to petition a mass refund.","hours":9.2,"funny_percent":0.07083227928155832,"helpful_percent":0.9096888439160131}
{"review":"''As wide as an ocean, but has the depth of a puddle.'' Angry Joe - 2016","hours":29.2,"funny_percent":0.22631166797180893,"helpful_percent":0.9169929522317932}
{"review":"Let this be a lesson to us all: never pre-order anything.","hours":7.9,"funny_percent":0.058695652173913045,"helpful_percent":0.9144927536231884}
{"review":"Now on the store page: \"The standard Steam refund policy applies to No Man's Sky. There are no special exemptions available. Click here for more detail on the Steam refund policy.\"  The fact that Steam had to put a disclaimer about their refund policy on the front of a game's sale page should give you more information than any opinionated review ever could.   The game is a complete lie and everyone who bought it got scammed, plain and simple. ","hours":20.6,"funny_percent":0.12208742538031966,"helpful_percent":0.9148854226843828}
{"review":"Pros -Lots of Space -Lots of planets -Lots of animals -Lots of Aliens -Lots of Ships -Lots of settlements/structures  Cons -Lots of space filled with things that you've seen within the first 2 hours of the game -Lots of planets that have all of the same resources and are different colors/hues -Lots of aliens, but they apparently hate eachother and you will never see more than one in a settlement/outpost/structure/space station -Lots of ships but they all handle exactly the same way -Lots of settlements strewn out throughout billions of planets... that all look exactly the same and have one resident alien in them   Please, don't buy this game at full price. The only reason you should buy this is if it was <$10.  (Edit: Forgot to tag in 'at full price' after saying Please, don't buy this game.)","hours":23.7,"funny_percent":0.11965811965811966,"helpful_percent":0.927960927960928}
{"review":"No Man's Sky, one of the worst scams of the 21st century.  -This game features 18 quintillion planets, they look the same and have the same glitches, resources and bugged creatures. -Aliens that have no meaning, besides having very slow paced conversations, they do nothing. -Space battles? They are a lie, the worst spacecraft vs spacecraft system I could have ever imagined. -Factions? They give you a minor discount on items, faction vs faction doesn't exist. -Survival? A pointless grind, the resource you need to survive is always nearby. -Adventure? More like exploration without any dangers. -Epic soundtrack? After 2 hours you will disable it and use your own music. -Achievements? Never before has earning achievements been annoying, they interrupt your gameplay. -Epic ending? It's the same as an empty box, there is nothing.  -Reasons to buy this game? -No reason.","hours":70.3,"funny_percent":0.06076388888888889,"helpful_percent":0.9166666666666666}
{"review":"This game has endless possiblities.   I had a great time playing this game.  I just couldn't stop playing it.     I got all the achievements   This Game is great  18/18 Would recommend ","hours":75.1,"funny_percent":1.5037741701995657,"helpful_percent":0.8910143728673353}
{"review":"All the things Sean Murray said would be in the game, but werent.  -Faction's Waring -Amazing Ship Customization -Amazing Crafting System -Landing on Asteroids -Destroying Space Stations -Large Creatures Affecting The Landscape -Multiplayer","hours":30.5,"funny_percent":0.07063953488372093,"helpful_percent":0.9098837209302325}
{"review":"The perfect scam:  Bait players into playing past the refund deadline, using false advertising, so Steam won't refund the purchase.   ???  PROFIT.  Welcome to the future of gaming, folks.  Edit: This review was a mistake.  Edit 2: 1.1 update sounds like it makes NMS more like Empyrion, except it still costs > 3x more and gets less regular updates and additions. Just buy Empyrion instead.","hours":47.6,"funny_percent":0.14631147540983608,"helpful_percent":0.9036885245901639}
{"review":"A mile wide but an inch deep. I can not express it better.","hours":3.8,"funny_percent":0.17336810838223574,"helpful_percent":0.8818372817503441}
{"review":"Pros: - mr Sean Murray sold it well - the hype train was cool - i got to return it and get my money back  Cons: - the actual game","hours":1.7,"funny_percent":0.8309916513948279,"helpful_percent":0.8717165546731827}
{"review":"Pretty good for a $10 early access game. Oh wait no, it's $60, and it's marketed as a finished product. My bad.","hours":15.3,"funny_percent":0.5050878815911193,"helpful_percent":0.8630897317298798}
{"review":"Sean Murray, thx you a lot.  You taught me not to trust screenshots, videos and promises of developers before release of the game. You taught me not to buy something on prerelease to get some reward (especially that breaks the game) You taught me not to play game more than 2 hours to see, what else developers didn't include in the game. You taught me if game has a lot of bugs, crashes, FPS drops, bad optimization, localization - this is good reason to refund it, but not wait for fixes.  You taught me never trust you and Hello games.  I paid the price for this knowledge in full.","hours":43.6,"funny_percent":0.09076042518397383,"helpful_percent":0.9174161896974653}
{"review":"First of all, I really tried to like the game, and in all honesty, I do to a certain point. I pretty much achieved and did everything there is to do right now, the immersion is there, but everything else falls flat. This review is centered around the four cornerstones of the game.  Explore  As you may already know, the game procedurally generates a whole universe. This sounds, and is, awesome, but after a couple of systems you won't see anything special anymore. The planets are kind of the same and after a while you will know, if a planet will be worth it to land, or not. Landing on a garden world feels refreshing, but after two or three they too aren't that special anymore.   The planetary physics are nonexistant. There are no gas giants, the sun is just a bright spot on a sky box, the planets aren't rotating, or moving at all. They are very close together which conveys a very unrealistic feeling.  The plants and animals are also procedurally generated, but the pool is pretty limited and the animals' behaviour is also very limited. You can scan the animals to 'complete' a planet, but that's more a chore than fun.  The real fun killer are the three space races, though. Every system has a station, every planet is inhabited by them, so every system is already kind of explored which actually contradicts the game's name itself.  Fight  The systems behind ground and space battle are, to put it mildly, shallow. The sentinels (the drones patrolling every planet) are just annoying and are canon fodder after some upgrades to your multi tool. Their stronger versions are destroyed with 2-3 shots of the same weapon. You still can just run away and your wanted level will be removed after a couple of seconds.  The dogfights are just bad, plus they're only in space. Early on, space pirates are pretty much the only way you could die (I never died in this game) because they can pile up pretty quickly and your initial ship will suck at fighting back (more on ships later). With a good ship and some upgrades, they're just annoying again, otherwise you can just land on a planet or station and they will de-spawn. You have to recharge your shields manually in real time which isn't a good design decision.  Trade  The trading system in No Man's Sky makes no sense at all. After just a couple of hours into the game, you will realize that units (the main currency) are pointless. The galactic trade market sells crafting materials and 'rare' items on a very limited scale and you're better off farming them for yourself.   Selling things is also pretty much useless, unless you want to buy a new ship, but they are horrendously overpriced. Finding crashed ships on planets is way easier, cheaper and faster to get you a new ride. Crafting consumable items isn't worth your time because you can refuel your space suit and engines with the raw materials. Also, consumables and rare items aren't stackable which results in a very limited inventory (which is already limited in itself).  Speaking of the inventory. Getting a bigger inventory is just a carrot on a stick. You can upgrade your suit with more inventory slots (the only place where your units are not pointless) and new ships have a chance to have more slots than your current one. So you will be interested in upgrading your stuff, which gives you something to do. But. With everything upgraded to the maximum, half of the existing crafting materials aren't needed anymore. The result is that you upgraded your inventory just to upgrade your inventory. After that, all the space isn't needed anymore and the needed crafting resources can be found on every single planet.  Survive  As I wrote earlier in 'Fight', the combat part of survival is very shallow, so are the more passive things in No Man's Sky. Most of the planets have a certain hostility modifier, like hot, cold, toxic and radioactive. The problem here is that as soon as you get behind the mechanics, it's very avoidable by just entering a building, caves or your ship to recharge your protection level, and you can do it manually, too. Again, with a properly upgraded space suit, hostile environments are pretty much nonexistent in the end game.  Rare resources are paired with more hostile sentinels, see 'Fight'.  Anything Else  Edit 28/08/16: Hello Games released some minor patches for most of the performance issues. I leave the outdated stuff below in brackets because it was important to me at that point. The fixes won't change my decision to not recommend the game.  I don't want to comment the launch problems of the game because there are plenty other reviews out there already describing the problems.  Outdated: (The performance problems shouldn't be there, and after two patches my game still crashes sometimes. Other problems, like FPS drops when entering your ship, aren't fixed yet.)  I know that my play time shows that I had my fair share for my money, but I still think that 60€ was a bit too much. 30-40€ would have been okay for what you'll get.  You will like the game when  - you like farming for farming's sake - you just want to chill out and relax - going on interstellar sightseeing tour is your thing  You won't like the game when  - you get bored quickly by repetitive content - you want to have a in depth trading or fighting system - you like realistic simulation - building stuff is important to you","hours":193.9,"funny_percent":0.03508771929824561,"helpful_percent":0.9077040427154843}
{"review":"I put my fair share of time in (nearly 36 hours at time of writing). I grinded out most everything. I have fully explored several planets, maxed out inventories and travelled accross countless star systems. I spent hours simply building up language database. Do you know what i have to show for it? Nothing. it was a waste of time.  To be clear, this is a beautiful looking game, with lot's of hope and wonder, that leads to absolutely nothing. I spent hours building up resources and inventories and amassing fortunes. With nothing to do with it. All that time spent learning languages, and there was no point. Anything important story-wise, is in common language. I had much hope, waiting for something to happen. It didn't. You build random items and fuels, but that's it. You can only move from one place to another, and very little changes. Buildings are virtually identical and evenly distributed on EVERY planet. You can spot them and know exactly what they are, and what they will contain. They are unbelieveably generic. Every NPC is the same. I spent hours learning languages of a particular race. 20+ building oup relations of 1 of the 3 races, so much so i was able to decipher almost the entire language in every dialogue. Do you know what I discovered? That it didn't matter. As soon as I discovered the 2nd race, it didn't matter that I didn't know a single word. They were identical. Sure they looked different a little, but every interaction was identical. There is no point to any of the languages, they amount to nothing at all. By the time you get enough to start deciphering the exact words, what they have to say is entirely useless anyway. Did you like that outpost you were at? Too bad, you'll never find it again because navigation is terrible. But don't worry, it doesn't matter because there is another outpost that is identical, just jump in your ship and fly in any direction for less than a minute and you'll find the same damn place with a different name.  This game was like the ending of the TV Show \"Lost\", lots of buildup for a complete let down. Accumulate for no reason, talk for no reason, explore for no reason. I like a grind, but you don't even have anything to show for it. You'll never go back to wherever you were, and you'll never be able to share what you find with another human being. Cool, on this planet I'm going to name everything after memes. cool. What's the point? I'll never see that planet again when i leave for the next one. I gave this game far too much of a chance, and too much of my time. Go play minecraft, at least here you can build something. Play an MMO, at least there you can talk to someone. Go play a game with any form of campaign, at least you'll get a story. NMS is like all those games, without the things that make them great. No story, no meaningful building, no social. This feels entirely like an MMO that is empty. Accumulate wealth to buy nothing of worth, to quest with no one, and find nothing of note.","hours":37.5,"funny_percent":0.04364454443194601,"helpful_percent":0.8870641169853768}
{"review":"We need Bob and his Army.  Shame on Steam for supporting false advertising and fruadluant game companies. I have been a long time Steam member and after applying for a refund well with in the terms this is the response I get from customer service.  Hi, after applying for a refund on the basis that the advertised game is not what I was sold I was declined.  I lodged for a refund with in the 2 weeks of purchasing the game although I have played the game for 18 hours.  I truly believe that I am eligiable for a refund on this purchase due to the misleading and false advertising of this game. If you take a look at the games trailer and compare it to the actual game you can clearly see what I received is far from the product sold.   As for the features missing in the game which were said to be in the game please see the list below with link to the source.  1. Landing on Asteroids Source:  YouTube™ Video: 70 Questions And Answers About No Man's Sky  Views: 629,227 Game Informer senior editor Jeff Cork quizzes founder of Hello Games Sean Murray on exactly what No Man's Sky is and what players can do and can't do in the final game.   2. Destroying Space Stations And Fleets Source:  YouTube™ Video: GI Show – No Man's Sky's Sean Murray Answers Community Questions  Views: 501,766 Recorded in late 2014, Game Informer interviews Sean Murray from Hello Games and asks him dozens of burning questions from the community about their upcoming sci-fi epic No Man's Sky.  Souce:  YouTube™ Video: PlayStation E3 2014 | No Man's Sky | Live Coverage (PS4)  Views: 103,970 PlayStation.Blog interviews Hello Games Founder, Sean Murray about No Man's Sky at PlayStation's E3 2014 Live Coverage show.   3.Giant Fleets of Ships Source: https://youtu.be/MZO40WBNA60?t=1m44s  4. Large Freighters Actually Moving Source: https://youtu.be/RRpDn5qPp3s?t=1m11s  5. Faction Affiliations w/ Significance Source: https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=9m37s  6. Trade Ships Docking w/ Freighters Source: https://youtu.be/BXUrOFVItgs?t=2m57s  7. Large-Scale, Joinable Space Battles Between Factions. Source: https://youtu.be/v5sBbjckyzU?t=34s  8. NPC Ships Launching From The Ground Source: https://youtu.be/WQhSP82uhY4?t=33s  9. Ringed Planets Source: https://youtu.be/GjKTJblJpw0  10. Planets Rotating and Orbiting Around a Sun Source: https://youtu.be/ueBCC1PCf84?t=1m34s https://youtu.be/ueBCC1PCf84?t=7m58s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=3m14s https://youtu.be/v5sBbjckyzU?t=1m40s  11. The Technical Possibility of Flying Between Star Systems Manually Source: https://youtu.be/GjKTJblJpw0?t=2m14s  12.Actual Ship Classes And Differentiation Source: https://youtu.be/h-kifCYToAU?t=24m2s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=14m38s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=17m45s  13.Naming Ships Source: https://youtu.be/GjKTJblJpw0?t=38m18s  14.More Natural Flight Characteristics Source: https://youtu.be/MZO40WBNA60?t=2m20s  15. Resources Depending On Distance From Sun, Environmental Factors Source: https://youtu.be/it_9pUYO2AY?t=4m33s https://youtu.be/BXUrOFVItgs?t=2m2s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=2m48s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=10m32s  16. The Ability To Play The Game Solely As A Trade or Solely in Space Source: https://youtu.be/BXUrOFVItgs?t=56s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=15m57s https://youtu.be/GjKTJblJpw0?t=35m20s  17.Crafting That Has Complexity Source: https://youtu.be/BXUrOFVItgs?t=2m8s  18. Find Elements By Checking Galactic Map Source: https://youtu.be/BXUrOFVItgs?t=1m19s  19.Large Creatures Affecting the Landscape Source: https://youtu.be/MZO40WBNA60?t=1m12s%22 https://youtu.be/0APP5WcX8v8?t=47s  20.Creatures Doing Things They Don't Do in the Game Source: https://youtu.be/WQhSP82uhY4?t=1m21s https://youtu.be/MZO40WBNA60?t=42s  21.Large Structures Source: https://youtu.be/RRpDn5qPp3s?t=32s https://youtu.be/MZO40WBNA60?t=2m30s https://youtu.be/0APP5WcX8v8?t=32s https://youtu.be/0APP5WcX8v8?t=43s  22.Crashed Freighters Source: https://youtu.be/RRpDn5qPp3s?t=1m19s  23. Portals Source: https://youtu.be/WQhSP82uhY4?t=1m37s  24. Sentinels in Large Packs Source: https://youtu.be/-sb-clg3Tlw?t=4m27s  25.Maintaining Wanted Level Indoors Source: https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=11m49s  26. Ambient Walker Sentinels Source: https://youtu.be/WQhSP82uhY4?t=40s  27.Being Able To See and Play With Other Players Source: https://youtu.be/n0uYnwqlslU?t=58s  28. Beacons Marking Points of Interest With Waypoints Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=v5sBbjckyzU&feature=youtu.be&t=5m13s  Why Does It Fall Short of What Was Advertised? Explore: Planets are less diverse than we'd been told, and with less features. They also don't seem to become appreciably more interesting as you move towards the center, if at all. The pool of resources is shallow, and they're spread more or less homogeneously among planets. There are no objects on planets that you will not have seen in an hour or two on your first planet, and no objects in space that can be found through exploration. Explore should be renamed Sightsee, as that's more or less what you're doing when exploring because you quickly run out of significant things to discover.  Fight: Ship combat was trivialized by the removal of classes and ship attributes. Large scale space battles were cut as well, and you cannot destroy space stations or freighters as we'd been told. You will fight sentinels and pirates alone, all of which fly ships which are functionally identical to your own. Ground combat occurs with only a few sentinels at a time, and poses no challenge. Fights are easily won, escaped from, or avoided entirely.  Trade: Trading offers few benefits outside of selling valuable items to upgrade to better equipment. There are few items you'd actually ever want to buy from a trader, and few things to sell that are worth using an inventory slot on instead of a gold/emeril stack. Grinding for elements/rare items to sell is as far as most will ever go, and money quickly becomes useless in the game. You probably can't play as a space trader exclusively, and trading between systems doesn't seem worth the hassle even if you can. Trading with factions is a non-consideration as you will max out in rep for everyone very quickly. There simply isn't enough elements in the game to support deep trade, as there's little to actually need, and little worth actually selling.  Survive: Everything you need for basic survival is bountiful on every planet. Sentinels pose no risk. The only thing that poses any particular risk is extreme planets, and there's zero incentive to even really visit those as they've got nothing you couldn't easily find elsewhere, not that the risk they pose isn't easily mitigated and/or dealt with.  As you can see, the game we were told we'd get is a far more feature-rich, complex and dynamic game than the one we actually got. What we got was a static, lifeless and paper thin experience by comparison.  I know I have played the game longer than the 2 hour refund peroid, but there was know way to know if any of these features we were sold on were in the game with out longer play time. As you can see I consistently played the game for those 18 hours when it was released. But I have not play it since after finding out all these features we were shown are missing.  As well as the missing features there are also performance issues and random crashes of the game. My system specs are as follows.  i5 2.67 GHz 12GB Ram Nvidia GeForce GTX1070 Windows 7 Professional 64bit  I have been a long time Steam member for over 10 years and have a lot of games I have purchased from the platform in those years. This is the first one I have ever bought where I have felt cheated due to the misleading advertising of the game. I will seriously consider purchases with them Steam in future if the refund isn't resolved.  I believe on these grounds I am entitled to a full refund. I am live in Australia and consummer law states I and entitled to a refund if:  Does not match descriptions made by the salesperson, on packaging and labels, and in promotions or advertising.  match any demonstration model or sample   2 Message by Support Tech Rosie on Tue, Aug 30 2016 9:52  Thank you for inquiring about a refund for No Man’s Sky. There has been some recent confusion in the community about Steam refunds for this title. Our standard refund policy continues to apply to No Man’s Sky, and playtime continues to matter when refunding the product. Unfortunately you do not qualify for a refund.   ","hours":37.9,"funny_percent":0.05745418524021793,"helpful_percent":0.8796433878157504}
{"review":"I gave this game the benefit of the doubt. Unfortunately I gave it that benefit a little too long to refund, and I regret to say I regret that. I'd heard a lot of bad news by the beginning, but to be honest I wasn't looking for much in NMS I didn't think I could get better elsewhere (Star Citizen/Elite). What drew me to NMS anyway was character, or rather the character I expected. As much as I love space trader sims, I really wanted a space game to express the impression of scale and solitude provided by a good astronomy lecture or binge session of Cosmos, and I thought NMS might be the game to do it. Unfortunately life, sapient and otherwise, is so ubiquitous that even if it lived up to its perported diversity it couldn't manage to be awe inspiring. Contact with sapient life is guarenteed on a per system basis, and as such it's too common to be a respite from solitude and too bland to offer a sense of companionship if there had been solitude to begin with.   There was a lot of potential in the language system, and I was and still am happy to see a space game finally address the language barrier. Very engaging stories could have been told with that system, even procedurally. Two individuals with virtually no similarities physically so much as culturally meet each other and are the only two individuals for lightyears? Perhaps the only two examples of biological life for lightyears? They speak with one another with clumsy and sloppy symbols if only to communicate an emotion for the first time in months? There really didn't have to be much. As it was, there was too much. To be honest some of the random building encounters could even begin to communicate that sense, but after the fifth in a few miles let alone a few light years, and with so little to learn about each of them, I just couldn't find much of a reason to keep looking.  In conjunction with solitude, I expected scale. It's difficult to communicate scale without being extraordinarily boring; I understand that subject is difficult to approach, and that I have greater taste for long-haul flying than the average gamer. That said, there are a lot of stopgap measures that can go a long way to making a reasonably navicable universe feel as big as it really is. Elite is a good example of a lot of them. Having played both games, one of the things that works most in Elite's favor in that regard is the interstellar navigation system. In elite, star systems are spacially relevant to one another. You can even navigate between them in real time at high C numbers if you're patient. Generally you never end up flying between them in real time, but it's important to the sense of scale to know you can. It provides tangible evidence that the systems you visit are actual places, not just another set of planets in the same skybox. One of the simplest examples of such a measure is elite's hyperspace system, which you normally use for interstellar navigation. Ultiamtely, after all the technobabble, you teleport. You are, however, required to face your target to do so, and I've found that little rule means a lot more to a sense of tangibility than I ever expected. Unfortunately NMS falls victim to teleport syndrome, and visiting a new system doesn't feel so much like travel as it does a map switch.   I really wanted NMS to be the game to satisfy the part of you that, when out camping somewhere, looks up at the Milky Way and knows that each point of light is as real a place as the ground you sit on, and that collectively, even as they comprise nearly all you can see from Earth, the lot of them are virtually negligable in the local group, which is in turn virtually negligable to Laniakea. I wanted the awe of looking at hubble deep field photos and understanding that those bright lights aren't stars, but galaxies. I never expected great gameplay from NMS, but I expected to feel small. I'm sorry to say that I didn't.  Go mess around with Space Engine.","hours":27.3,"funny_percent":0.031017369727047148,"helpful_percent":0.9156327543424317}
{"review":"In light of the Steam Autumn sale and the Steam Awards, I nominate this game for The \"Full of Lies\" award.  http://www.gamezone.com/news/no-man-s-sky-founder-backtracks-could-get-paid-dlc-3442515  Sean Murray promised there would be no paid DLC, we would recieve free updates since we had already paid $60 for the game. That was last week. Looks like that's already changed as Sean has gone back on that and said that Paid DLC is possible.  https://www.reddit.com/r/NoMansSkyTheGame/comments/4wxydf/im_about_to_meet_another_player_seriously/  https://www.reddit.com/r/Games/comments/4y1h9i/wheres_the_no_mans_sky_we_were_sold_on_a_big_list/  https://www.reddit.com/r/NoMansSkyTheGame/comments/4y046e/wheres_the_nms_we_were_sold_on_heres_a_big_list/ The original thread was unpinned and deleted, not sure why. Added a repost on /r/games and there is a cached version of the original in the comments.  Sean Murray promised there would be multiplayer but it would be very difficult to find one another. Soon after the game launched two streamers met up at the same place at the same time and could not see each other. The game is singleplayer. Sean has been very vague about everything since the begining and we're starting to know why. Above is a list showing the content that was planned and what is shown is an entirely different No Man's Sky. The game is not what they have promised and it not what was shown pre-launch or at E3. As you will read in many of the reviews, to many this game is not worth $60. No Man's Sky has a lot of good and can definitely be enjoyable. At it's core it is a great space exploration game that I could see myself enjoying for many more hours but the content that currently exists in the game is closer to $20-$30.  The PC port is a complete mess that a very large amount of people have significant performance problems, including myself, such as very low FPS, significant stuttering and hitching, and dropping to less than a third of your average FPS after an hour of play until restarting the game. Many can't even play the game. The resolution option does not change the resolution as the in game resolution is a set sub 1080p resolution (nobody knows the exact resolution from what I can tell) and is upscaled. Every graphics option other than FPS limit and FOV require a restart. Some graphics features aren't changeable such as chromatic abberation, any LOD or view distance settings, ambient occlusion, and anisotropic filtering doesn't work. There are control bindings that don't exist for mouse and keyboard as well such as free cam as a pilot.  The player count average has dropped from over 200,000 to about 30,000-50,000 within the first week of launch. This is likely because the gameplay consists of mining resources from a planet to reach the next planet to mine resources in addition to the many performance and stability problems.  https://www.reddit.com/r/NoMansSkyTheGame/comments/4xfrgb/defending_bad_pc_launches_ruins_the_future_of_pc/  https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Independent_video_game_development  Please do not defend the developers because they are indie, are a small studio, or because \"games have launch issues.\" First off, they have had significant financial support from Sony Entertainment Studios which brings into debate whether or not they're actually an indie studio. Secondly, if you are going to charge full price $60 for a product, it is reasonable to expect that product would have the content of a full priced game as well as work like one. Some say that the game is not complete and we should have known that going in. No Man's Sky released as a finished title for a full $60. A Full release is a full release will be treated like a full release. If you are considering buying No Man's Sky I encourage you to wait until either Hello Games gets their♥♥♥♥♥♥together or the community does it for them and pick it up at $30 or less price point.  [Edits --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------]  If you find errors or wrong information in my review, let me know, but ONLY if you provide valid evidence.   Before we start an angry mob I want to get something straight. I don't think we should start grabbing the pitchforks quite yet and I didn't make this review to make Sean Murray the devil. I come off a tad aggressive because yeah, they should be held accountable for their actions and it's pretty disappointing when something like this happens. However, I think it's very possible Sean and his team could have been in a very difficult situation where they really didn't have a right answer. He always seems anxious and stressed during interviews. Being in a 15 man team behind such an ambitious project with hype levels we haven't seen in awhile, partially because of Sony's marketing, it's understandable. It's also possible that when you invole a third party some power over the project is lost. Things are rarely black and white. Consider the situation on the other side of all of this before we go demonizing anyone. I think we should give No Man's Sky and Hello Games a few weeks to see where things go, see how they react to and handle the situation and let them show their true colors.  Though the majority of the list displaying the lack of content seems to be true, there is another post that is showing that a few parts are not, specifically planet terrain features, plant life, and some animal life. That still leaves many features missing but it can also mean it has not been experienced yet.   https://www.reddit.com/r/NoMansSkyTheGame/comments/4y0fbx/just_because_you_personally_have_not_seen/","hours":6.5,"funny_percent":0.023992956196346026,"helpful_percent":0.8685890380805635}
{"review":"Why is this still 60 dollars","hours":0.6,"funny_percent":0.14922600619195048,"helpful_percent":0.8773993808049536}
{"review":"Let me preface everything by saying that I actually bought this game on impulse before watching the trailers.  I like space, I like exploration, some of the early reviews were positive, so I bought it.  I regret that impulsive decision.   Take it from a 5 year veteran of Eve: Online this game is BORING.  Imagine Eve minus the hordes of players trying to kill you, it's more boring than that.   There is supposed to be septillions of stars and planets generated, but their algorithm is poor. This results in maybe 12 different planet types and 30 animal species. I'm being very generous with the planets, for the most part they are just different colors with a different icon showing you what is killing you today.  Now I wasn't expecting Spore like creature variety, but this is insulting. All of them look the same. There might be some slight variation between the crab like species trying to kill me, but I honestly couldn't tell.   The entire game is far too easy, in my trek from the start to the center of the galaxy my shields dropped a total of maybe 10 times, I still don't know what the death screen looks like.   The interface is utterly terrible. You have to hold to click EVERYTHING. I cannot fathom a reason this has to be for literally EVERYTHING. The galaxy map is the single worst aspect of the UI, a rather galaring flaw for something that wants to do space exploration. The path to the center is utterly useless, as I got close to the center it literally got stuck in a dead end. It ignores your hyperdrive upgrades meaning it's course will take you through about a dozen short hops and then abruptly stop, while you can reach the end in one jump or infact go much futher. There is a total disconnect between \"Distance from Center\" and \"Linear Distance\", 500ly for the former is about 1,500ly for the latter. You are down to luck for finding any particular location, even ones you've visited before.   The game play is more or less a resource grind, you land on a planet, shoot at a rock with a mining laser, you leave the planet to go shoot at a different rock. There are NPC, they are of three races, all of which just stand or sit alone in one place. They never do anything, you can talk to them and maybe get a blue print or something, but thats it, there is no personality, not even real interaction.   There was an Atlas quest line, that brought you to 10 admittedly rather spiffy looking space stations. Actually I lied, there are 4 rather spiffy looking space stations that are repeated a couple of times in no particular order. It starts no where and ends in a non ending. This may last you a couple of hours (or however long it takes you to realize the map system is trash and just jump to the end). But it pales in comparison to reaching the Galactic Center.   Thats the final insult, what happens at the center. I'll rant in a spoilerific manner after the next paragraph. Suffice to say if we reached the center and had a planet sized MIDDLE FINGER to explore, this would still be less of a ♥♥♥♥ YOU than what we got. Because at least the Flipping Bird of God would be an object of interest and discussion.   It was after I had played for a while that I went out and watched the trailers, holy♥♥♥♥♥♥I wanted to play that game, too bad it's not what I bought. I'm angry I wasted money buying this, I would have been furious if my expectations were that high. This isn't a case of a fandom hyping in a vacuum, the developers were outright lying to us. Not just in the trailers, but in the words they were speaking. ♥♥♥♥ this game.   SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER SPOILER    You start jumping to the center, the game silently says \"nope\", plays prog rock as it holds the scroll backwards button on the map screen, fade to black and dumps you at the start of a new practically identical galaxy with all you stuff broken. I think it might even have gotten the color on my ship wrong. I can't tell because my game bugged out and put me in slow mo, and I was already fighting the urge to just toss my computer out a window. So no, you don't even get to see what is so shiny at the center of the universe, you just start over again.   Seriously ♥♥♥♥ this game.","hours":69.4,"funny_percent":0.0834272829763247,"helpful_percent":0.8742953776775648}
{"review":"I feel like I'm late to the review party, but I already knew what I was going to bring to it.   Can't say enough on this being my first thumbs-down, and I give it with a heavy heart. Not least of which the fact that it comes on the back of so many, to a studio that no doubt is feeling the vitriol from many angles in the gaming community. But this game, its vision, its delivery, and the post-launch crisis management (or the lack of all of these) deserve, despite the misalignment between intention and result, nothing less than total honesty.  Sean and Hello Games, you know already what the complaints of the game are. I won't bother to repeat them. But everything in game design comes down to the quantum leaps that are made, here and there, by a brave developer who developed a great game despite, indeed because of, the struggle of doing something new. You could have been that developer. You could have been a Marcus Persson and your company a Mojang. You could have been the deliverers of an Elder Scrolls, or a Minecraft, or a Dark Souls. Instead, you chose to hide in the sand while your game faced tough backlash. And I'll be certainly not the first to say that it's not that you lied. It's not that you released a broken experience. It's not even that you made choices that you had to know, just had to, would result in an experience that paled in comparison to the behemoth that you hinted you were hiding.   It's that you gave up. Gave up on everyone, and on No Man's Sky itself.  Maybe it's that you just didn't understand what you were building, and that what you found in your creation was enough to be excited for, and want to promote, and be willing to release. You knew the code, the genius of the generation, and the engine you were molding. But there is no music without melody, no masterpiece without meaning, no book without phrases. And so I add my review to the sad pile of broken dreams that this has become, knowing that I'll continue to hope for a day that I can look back on my review, and change its rating, and add some positive thoughts. Until then, there is much you have to do.  I sincerely hope that this game, and the $250 I've invested in it (including the explorer edition and the PS4 version) prove what I've written here wrong one day.","hours":21.4,"funny_percent":0.03645007923930269,"helpful_percent":0.9096671949286846}
{"review":"I played this game for 23 hours, and I did not have fun.  Some will say \"You must have been having fun, otherwise you wouldn't have played it for 23 hours. Why didn't you stop after 5 hours?\"  The answer to that is: Because I BELIEVED it would get better. I had faith. People kept saying things like this:  \"Planets get more interesting closer to the center.\" \"You just haven't given the game enough time yet. It gets better once you get more inventory slots.\" \"Keep playing, I've had an amazing time.\"  Lets say someone came to me and said \"Lets dig to the center of the Earth. Theres a pot of gold there and you will be rich. Heres a shovel\", and I start digging. After 10 hours I say \"This sucks. I'm going back up the ladder.\"  The gentleman says \"No keep digging. It will get better. It will be worth it.\"  After 23 hours of digging I'm still having a terrible time. Do I give up and say \"that was no fun\", or do I keep digging?  How about if I had paid 40 quid for the shovel?  edit: I wrote this review immediately after closing the game and saw \"23 hours\" - Steam updated a few mins later to add the last few hours I'd spent playing. I haven't played it since writing this review.","hours":26.6,"funny_percent":0.15128155714010408,"helpful_percent":0.8525727500481788}
{"review":"The fact that this title is still $60 says a lot about the ethics of Hello Games. The blatant lies told by the devs and the use off pre-rendered footage passed of as \"actual gameplay\" prior to release. The continuation of lies after the game was released. Yeah, they're adding new content (small amounts of it), but too little too late. It was a cleverly disguised sham of a game that took you around 4 hours to dig below the thin surface to find out what you thought you bought was nowhere near what you received, allowing both Hello Games and Steam to skirt the refund policy. Quite possibly one of the worst game puchases I've ever made in 30 years of gaming.","hours":20.8,"funny_percent":0.015984015984015984,"helpful_percent":0.8801198801198801}
{"review":"Love it or hate it, this game is unfinished. The devs know it. Sony knows it. Everyone who bought this game knows it. It's able to sell because the game at heart has a great idea, and the devs and publisher know how to market it. The question is if you would pay $60 for an idea or a game. If you buy No Man's Sky, all you'll get is the former. If you're looking for the game, you won't find it here. They will tell you that you're buying the game (just look at these trailers and screenshots) but it's not. It's deceptive, disgusting, and borderline fraud, but it's business. Only purchase if you have faith in Hello Games, even after they lied to you.","hours":13.6,"funny_percent":0.020036429872495445,"helpful_percent":0.907103825136612}
{"review":"I played this for many hours thinking that I would eventually get to actual gameplay behind the endless grind of upgrading the slots in your inventory. The farther in I went, the more it became apparent that there WAS no game here. What the developers have created is an excellent platform to build a game in. They just never got that far.","hours":58.4,"funny_percent":0.0511727078891258,"helpful_percent":0.8795309168443497}
{"review":"The game creates the illusion that it is going somewhere for a few hours and then begins to become a grind... which works for a lot of titles. The grind can be welcome. Look at Minecraft, MMOs, Warframe and even games with ranked matches. People love to grind to improve, or collect or move forward. That is not what I am talking about when I talk about NMS. The grind in NMS is a grind without reason or goal. You simply exist to repeat the same pointless acts until you get bored... the reason there is such a tidal wave of rage is because you get sick of this 60+ dollar game extremely quickly.  Pros:  Reading up on the lore for the races is interesting.  Cons:  I didn't pay 60 dollars for a comic book length read about 3 alien races. Space combat is terrible and feels like it was never tested. Where are the goals? No end game. No mid game. Creatures are all frankenstein combinations of the same parts.  Scanning birds is buggy and doesn't react fast enough. General advice is to just kill them and scam the corpse. Worlds are ugly and garish due random asset dumping without thought or care.  It is designed to be a timesink and only a timesink. Your money is better spent elsewhere. If you absolutely feel the need to buy this, try to stop playing before 2 hours and really contemplate if it is worth keeping... they didn't put up a \"we don't offer refunds outside of the rules\" warning sticker on the store page for a while for no reason. This game looks and plays nothing like advertised and worse than that, barely functions as a game. Maybe if it sold for 20USD it could be justified... maybe.   1/10 refund simulator, stops working if you leave it on too long while googling when the fun is supposed to start.","hours":15,"funny_percent":0.056921086675291076,"helpful_percent":0.8861578266494179}
{"review":"I originally reviewed this game back in 2016, and gave it a negative review. Back then, the game was so bad, that my gaming friends and I started calling it the worse game ever made.  It was absolutely horrible. The only thing the game allowed you to do was shoot rocks in order to get resources that you could use to power your ship, in order to fly to an almost identical planet so you could shoot more rocks in order to be able to repeat the process again and again with absolutely no point to any of it.  The game had horrible texture bugs, the creatures were almost all identical, ugly little crabs and dull planets. You had a limited inventory, portals did not work. The only thing you could do was shoot rocks with your gun, and even then, it was limited so you could only shoot at the rocks a bit, with the tool both overheating and running out of fuel.  I got the game 100% based on Steam trailers, on a whim. I was not a disappointed fan boy that fell for the hype, to be honest I did not even know there was any hype. The game only came on my radar a couple days before actually buying it.  I played the game for 60 hours exactly, 1 hour for each dollar spent on the game. Just so I could say I had given it a fair chance before ripping it to pieces in a review.  Afterwards, I learned from Youtube videos who Sean Murray was, I saw the broken promisses, the false advertising, and thought to myself that Sean Murray must be a con artist, and that I should never buy anything from Hello games ever again.  Soon after, Sean Murray seemed to disappear, and I thought to myself that they had took the money and run.  I then forgot all about the game, until unexpectedly I heard that an update had been made for the game. I had absolutely no interest of ever playing the game again, but because I believed the game had been abandoned by devs that had gone totally silent, I had to take a look just out of curiosity.  Now here we are, with an updated review. Another 12 hours put into the game so I could explore the update, and see what had been changed.  So, what do I think about the game now? Well, I think it is still probably the worse game that has ever been made. I find the base building missions to be slow and monotonous, a series of fetch quests.  However! ... While I still would not play the game again even if you paid me, they have made some improvements, and to me that speaks volumes about Sean Murray and all the other devs and people at Hello games.  These people could have taken the money and run, they had been forgotten about, they had been challenged by the Advertising Standards Agency and won, they could have got away with leaving it at that.  Instead of taking the money and running, they tried to make good.  The planets are no longer all boring, dead, monotonous and the same, they now have much more diverse creatures and plant life. Doing this has messed with the performance of the game, causing me to experience some frame drops on a 5000 dollar gaming rig, but they have at least done something about it.  While the game before only had like 5 or 6 kinds of rocks to shoot at for getting resources, the game now has like 10 or 12 kinds of rocks to shoot at. This still feels like being slowly water boarded in some nightmare-like limbo, but at least they have tried to do something to improve the game.  Before the game had no base building, but now it does. While I find the base building to be totally pointless, and find the amount of things you can build to be very limited, the system at least functions and snaps into place in an intuitive way, and again, they could have not bothered.  The devs have also tried to improve the game other ways. Before there were no large scale battles for you to participate in like the trailers showed, but there now is some kind of a battle system in the game. You could not own any large ships before, now you can own one, and before there were no working portals, but now there are.  All in all, taking everything I know into consideration, I would still not recommend this game to anyone. I honestly think it is one of the dullest things I have ever seen. My opinion of the game has not changed.  What has changed however, is my opinion of Sean Murray and Hello Games.  I'll be honest. If I had been in Sean Murrays shoes a few months back, at some point under all the pressure, I would have probably sold off Hello Games to the fist bidder for a dollar, and I would have taken the millions from No Man's Sky, and I would not be living in luxury on some tropical island no one has ever heard of.  No Man's Sky will go down in history as one of the biggest mistakes in gaming history. Nothing can be done at this point to change that.   Appart from the disaster the game was, the PR and the way they went silent was also its own disaster. There are a million ways they could have done things better, both with the game and the PR.  Despite all that, I don't think Sean Murray is a con man, and I don't think Hello Games are guitly of false adertising anymore.  Even though I think the game is still terrible, I think they did the right thing, and I think they deserve a second chance.  If I see Sean Murray is involved with making another game again, I will now give him the benefit of the doubt and see what he produces, rather than automatically dismiss the new game.  I am still socked to see they want 60 bucks for this thing, but because of the attempts to improve the game, because they did the right thing, and because the game has almost become a historical document that we can learn from, I would say if you have a lot of money, and you see this game on offer for 5 bucks, maybe pick up a copy.  This game is not worth playing, but maybe after this bad experience, the next game that Hello Games makes will benefit from that experience. I don't like this game, but after their attempts to at least do something to improve it, I am curious to see what they make next.  Hello Games went from a small company that was making low budget lame games no one had heard of, to a company that made one of the most hyped and anticipated lame games ever. As bad as that sounds, it still shows they have potential, because it is not easy to go from making small 2D games to making something like No Man's Sky. If they can make a leap like that again, I would be interested to see what they make next.  In principle, the idea of No Man's Sky is good, it could have been good. But in practice it was not.  Forget the mistake, move on, and lets see the next game.  ","hours":72.8,"funny_percent":0.03495512517713746,"helpful_percent":0.8578176665092111}
{"review":"I'll make it short  Pros:- 1- first two hours  Cons:- 1- The entire game after the first two hours  ","hours":11.2,"funny_percent":0.4894918444165621,"helpful_percent":0.8444165621079046}
{"review":"I made a little poem to review this game:  No Man's Sky  One Man's Lie  Please Don't Buy  The End.","hours":80.4,"funny_percent":1.2201399864529239,"helpful_percent":0.8419507789568751}
{"review":"Basicly everything exciting for the game was a lie.  I would refund if I could. :/","hours":4.9,"funny_percent":0.05089605734767025,"helpful_percent":0.8516129032258064}
{"review":"Product received for free  I overpaid.","hours":4.3,"funny_percent":1.828512396694215,"helpful_percent":0.8337716003005259}
{"review":"If you want to pay $60 dollars for a game that runs terribly, has at most 5 hours of interesting content, an inventory system worse than Destiny's, combat worse than Minecraft's, numerous bugs/glitches, an insulting ending, and a developer that won't address the fact that they lied to everybody, then you should buy this game.","hours":19.7,"funny_percent":0.1297134238310709,"helpful_percent":0.8657616892911011}
{"review":"Lies include, but are not limited to, Multiplayer Freighter destruction Freighters crashing into planets Desert planets Ships that have unique strengths and weaknesses- Added in update 1.2 Multi tool discovery and naming- Added in update 1.2, however, no discovery and name is only for you Ship discovery and naming- Added in update 1.2, same as with multitool discovery Faction wars Freedom with flight (not being limited to how low you can fly)- Somewhat added in update 1.2 And more  Don't forget the terrible lack of planet, plant, and animal variety, and also the repetition after about 5 hours. - Planet variety is slightly better after the updates Don't buy this game unless you want less than what the interviews and trailers show - Still true Sorry Sean, but this is not close to a full and finished game that is worth the 60$ - Get on low price sale now, its coming along and these free updates will redeem the game if they keep coming","hours":58.3,"funny_percent":0.1012514220705347,"helpful_percent":0.8494501327265832}
{"review":"As for the features missing in the game which were said to be in the game please see the list below with link to the source.  1. Landing on Asteroids Source:  YouTube™ Video: 70 Questions And Answers About No Man's Sky  Views: 629,227 Game Informer senior editor Jeff Cork quizzes founder of Hello Games Sean Murray on exactly what No Man's Sky is and what players can do and can't do in the final game.   2. Destroying Space Stations And Fleets Source:  YouTube™ Video: GI Show – No Man's Sky's Sean Murray Answers Community Questions  Views: 501,766 Recorded in late 2014, Game Informer interviews Sean Murray from Hello Games and asks him dozens of burning questions from the community about their upcoming sci-fi epic No Man's Sky.  Souce:  YouTube™ Video: PlayStation E3 2014 | No Man's Sky | Live Coverage (PS4)  Views: 103,970 PlayStation.Blog interviews Hello Games Founder, Sean Murray about No Man's Sky at PlayStation's E3 2014 Live Coverage show.   3.Giant Fleets of Ships Source: https://youtu.be/MZO40WBNA60?t=1m44s  4. Large Freighters Actually Moving Source: https://youtu.be/RRpDn5qPp3s?t=1m11s  5. Faction Affiliations w/ Significance Source: https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=9m37s  6. Trade Ships Docking w/ Freighters Source: https://youtu.be/BXUrOFVItgs?t=2m57s  7. Large-Scale, Joinable Space Battles Between Factions. Source: https://youtu.be/v5sBbjckyzU?t=34s  8. NPC Ships Launching From The Ground Source: https://youtu.be/WQhSP82uhY4?t=33s  10. Planets Rotating and Orbiting Around a Sun Source: https://youtu.be/ueBCC1PCf84?t=1m34s https://youtu.be/ueBCC1PCf84?t=7m58s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=3m14s https://youtu.be/v5sBbjckyzU?t=1m40s  11. The Technical Possibility of Flying Between Star Systems Manually Source: https://youtu.be/GjKTJblJpw0?t=2m14s  12.Actual Ship Classes And Differentiation Source: https://youtu.be/h-kifCYToAU?t=24m2s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=14m38s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=17m45s  13.Naming Ships Source: https://youtu.be/GjKTJblJpw0?t=38m18s  14.More Natural Flight Characteristics Source: https://youtu.be/MZO40WBNA60?t=2m20s  15. Resources Depending On Distance From Sun, Environmental Factors Source: https://youtu.be/it_9pUYO2AY?t=4m33s https://youtu.be/BXUrOFVItgs?t=2m2s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=2m48s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=10m32s  16. The Ability To Play The Game Solely As A Trade or Solely in Space Source: https://youtu.be/BXUrOFVItgs?t=56s https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=15m57s https://youtu.be/GjKTJblJpw0?t=35m20s  17.Crafting That Has Complexity Source: https://youtu.be/BXUrOFVItgs?t=2m8s  18. Find Elements By Checking Galactic Map Source: https://youtu.be/BXUrOFVItgs?t=1m19s  19.Large Creatures Affecting the Landscape Source: https://youtu.be/MZO40WBNA60?t=1m12s%22 https://youtu.be/0APP5WcX8v8?t=47s  20.Creatures Doing Things They Don't Do in the Game Source: https://youtu.be/WQhSP82uhY4?t=1m21s https://youtu.be/MZO40WBNA60?t=42s  21.Large Structures Source: https://youtu.be/RRpDn5qPp3s?t=32s https://youtu.be/MZO40WBNA60?t=2m30s https://youtu.be/0APP5WcX8v8?t=32s https://youtu.be/0APP5WcX8v8?t=43s  22.Crashed Freighters Source: https://youtu.be/RRpDn5qPp3s?t=1m19s  23. Portals Source: https://youtu.be/WQhSP82uhY4?t=1m37s  24. Sentinels in Large Packs Source: https://youtu.be/-sb-clg3Tlw?t=4m27s  25.Maintaining Wanted Level Indoors Source: https://youtu.be/D-uMFHoF8VA?t=11m49s  26. Ambient Walker Sentinels Source: https://youtu.be/WQhSP82uhY4?t=40s  27.Being Able To See and Play With Other Players Source: https://youtu.be/n0uYnwqlslU?t=58s  Why Does It Fall Short of What Was Advertised? Explore: Planets are less diverse than we'd been told, and with less features. They also don't seem to become appreciably more interesting as you move towards the center, if at all. The pool of resources is shallow, and they're spread more or less homogeneously among planets. There are no objects on planets that you will not have seen in an hour or two on your first planet, and no objects in space that can be found through exploration. Explore should be renamed Sightsee, as that's more or less what you're doing when exploring because you quickly run out of significant things to discover.  Fight: Ship combat was trivialized by the removal of classes and ship attributes. Large scale space battles were cut as well, and you cannot destroy space stations or freighters as we'd been told. You will fight sentinels and pirates alone, all of which fly ships which are functionally identical to your own. Ground combat occurs with only a few sentinels at a time, and poses no challenge. Fights are easily won, escaped from, or avoided entirely.  Trade: Trading offers few benefits outside of selling valuable items to upgrade to better equipment. There are few items you'd actually ever want to buy from a trader, and few things to sell that are worth using an inventory slot on instead of a gold/emeril stack. Grinding for elements/rare items to sell is as far as most will ever go, and money quickly becomes useless in the game. You probably can't play as a space trader exclusively, and trading between systems doesn't seem worth the hassle even if you can. Trading with factions is a non-consideration as you will max out in rep for everyone very quickly. There simply isn't enough elements in the game to support deep trade, as there's little to actually need, and little worth actually selling.  Survive: Everything you need for basic survival is bountiful on every planet. Sentinels pose no risk. The only thing that poses any particular risk is extreme planets, and there's zero incentive to even really visit those as they've got nothing you couldn't easily find elsewhere, not that the risk they pose isn't easily mitigated and/or dealt with.  As you can see, the game we were told we'd get is a far more feature-rich, complex and dynamic game than the one we actually got. What we got was a static, lifeless and paper thin experience by comparison.  I know I have played the game longer than the 2 hour refund peroid, but there was know way to know if any of these features we were sold on were in the game with out longer play time. As you can see I consistently played the game for those 18 hours when it was released. But I have not play it since after finding out all these features we were shown are missing.  As well as the missing features there are also performance issues and random crashes of the game. My system specs are as follows.  i7 2.67 GHz 32GB Ram Nvidia GeForce GTX1070 Windows 7 Professional 64bit  I have been a long time Steam member for over 10 years and have a lot of games I have purchased from the platform in those years. This is the first one I have ever bought where I have felt cheated due to the misleading advertising of the game. I will seriously consider purchases with them Steam in future if the refund isn't resolved.  I believe on these grounds I am entitled to a full refund. I am live in Netherlands and consumer law states I and entitled to a refund if:  Does not match descriptions made by the salesperson, on packaging and labels, and in promotions or advertising.","hours":15.3,"funny_percent":0.02040816326530612,"helpful_percent":0.9455782312925171}
{"review":"Edit: Review is constantly changed as I keep finding more reasons to write about why people should stay away from this game.   The reason for my 40+ hours in this game is because like many other players, I kept playing hoping for the game to get better. Unfortunately, it never did.  It is essentially the most basic of survival games with little to no features or content. Most players' first few hours are as follows.  1. Find yourself stranded on a planet wondering where you are. 2. Go out looking for resources to repair your ship. 3. Find the atmosphere of the game amazing. 4. Potentially find one of the (ONLY THREE!) alien races and be even more amazed. 5. Repair ship and head to space. 6. Go to space station. 7. (Wow more of) The alien race, cool. 8. Go to another planet, see same thing for miles on end. 9. Head to another system. 10. Potentially find different planet or same planet as first system with a different colour palette.   After this, the novelty wears off, and that's when the tedium and monotony ensues for most players.  1. Find plutonium, recharge launch thrusters. 2. Maybe stay at the current system's station and trade between some of the aliens. 3. Life support low every minute, (TECHNOLOGIES, RECHARGED!). 4. Maybe find one of the less than ten worthwhile resources to gather on a planet. 5. Mine for hours on end. 6. Make antimatter, go to another system. 7. Rinse and repeat.  Hint: ^ This part goes on forever.   The gimmick behind No Man's Sky is purely exploration, and that can't exist as each one of the 3 alien races seems to occupy every bit of the galaxy divided amongst themselves, which doesn't allow you to have any sense of discovery or accomplishment for finding certain things that may exist on the planets or within the systems. Every single building looks the same between the 3 races and the procedural generation can create some rather, disappointing creations when it comes to the creatures such as a bouncing pineapple with eyes. Put this across 18 quintillion planets, that of which all will never be discovered, and you essentially have a game in which nothing may as well exist because that is exactly what you're doing. The company invested more time and money in an alogrithm, rather than producing something of a higher quality that may have been worth our hard earned cash.  Also some players have had their discoveries reset or deleted since the beginning of the game (about 2 weeks later, in chronological order). Even more points against the supposed \"discovery\" and \"exploration\" aspects of the game.  For those of you wondering about the 40+ hours and how I could ever possibly think it could get better, it's because the developers lied about that too. From several interviews, we were told that the closer you got to the center, the \"crazier\" the procedural generation became. Nothing changed, not from going as far out as possible, or going as far in as possible. NOTHING CHANGED! ZERO! It was the same planet types, the same \"hazardous\" environments and atmospheres, the same horrible creature generation with the only difference being colour. The limited amount of variations in such a large system causes this game to become incredibly repetitive in all aspects of gameplay very quickly.  One of the recent patches also forced new players to require even larger amounts of time in order to reach the center, as these new players spawn further out from the center than those prior to the patch, and distance travelled between systems seems to have been divided by ~4. Attempts to reach the center are purposefully being impeded/stalled as to prevent players from witnessing one of the worst \"endings\" to a game possible (where we were told it was supposed to be \"magical\" and \"beautiful\", which the \"ending\" is the exact opposite of).  The main \"enemies\" of this game aren't even worth mentioning either. They're barely a threat, give large quantities of titanium (a RARE material), and of course, are on every single planet, in every single system, in every single galaxy, in the universe. They can also be a nuissance on some planets where they are also automatically aggressive when they see you. They can attack you while talking to an alien or when examining a monolith, while you have to wait for lines of text to come up, before you can cancel it to defend yourself. They can kill you during actions which you can not control past the initiation of.  As stated by many, this \"game\" is a tech demo and nothing more as of the release. Even now it still runs poorly on some of the best hardware one can have in their computer. It's also a hand holder along with overly simple flight mechanics, god awful UI, and inventory system.  It's sad to think that the hype around this game was actually produced more by the main developer of Hello Games (Sean Murray for those who don't know), and that they disappointed far too many people to count. It's discouraging to see that with how many features were promised, how full of life the trailers and interviews made the game seem, we got the most stripped down version of the game possible, where even Minecraft has more to offer, and that's a sandbox.  What's worse is that the Steam store is currently showing two trailers which are referenced for the false advertising of the game. Customers are potentially viewing content which is not present in the game, which either will never exist, or may be added far too long down the road. Along with this, the trailers show far better graphics (even on the highest settings) and shows the game running far smoother than it does. To add insult to injury, the features and content shown in the trailers may even come out as paid DLC, putting what was once promised content behind another pay wall. If it's anything like the base game, the developers are likely to be labeled as frauds, if they haven't already.  It is unclear as to whether the developers plan on adding the features they have left from the game based on the interviews and trailers, or even plan on bothering to communicate with those who purchased the game.  TL;DR: An inadequate game with inadequate support followed by terrible pricing.   P.S. This game is not worth buying on sale either, even a 50% discount would not be worth the price to time ratio, considering most people are interested in the game for about 8-10 hours.  P.P.S. This should be the one game on steam you can refund with less than 50 hours, because by that time you might actually reach the center of the galaxy (your \"mission\" apparently), and you will realize what a waste of time and money this game was/is.","hours":46.9,"funny_percent":0.04754358161648178,"helpful_percent":0.8811410459587956}
{"review":"\"A mile wide but an inch deep\" was the title of Haedox's review, and a good one sentence summary of No Man's Sky. Since its release on PC, the amount of negative mobilization against the developer has been alarming, and overly harsh. However, behind the slandering and swinging punches there are some basic valid points. Two of which are that is was indeed released too early on PC, and it is overpriced. But for me, neither of these are why I'm not recommending the game at this time.   The main issue with the game is in its DNA. Whilst being procedural allows for everything to be different, this randomness is still limited by the depth of its algorithms. Visit 1 planet and you've essentially seen all 18 Quintillion - Colours, animations, flora and fauna may be randomized, but it all starts to look roughly the same. You start to see the parameters set by the algorithms - eg. placement of objects and resources, max terrain elevation. And this problem with depth is not just aesthetic, it affects the biological and geographic complexity and interactivity - extreme temperature shifts should be reflected in the flora and fauna, life should spring up around pockets of liquid on barren planets, a two ton dinosaur shouldnt walk on the hind legs of a bird. Whilst randomness may seem like a great way of creating a whole universe, the reality is our own universe is anything but random - rather a series of interconnected and relative processes. This is what makes it interesting to discover, and what is lacking in the NMS approach.   For a game that relies on exploration as a key motivator to play, I just don't feel like I'm discovering anything spectacular or original. The first three hours of the game were fantastic. Good premise - ship has crashed, needs repair. A new alien world to discover - your time on the first planet is really brilliant - taking in excellent sound design, strange plants, spotting your first creature. However once you arrive at your second, third, and fourth, you start to realise that the game's main incentive - to discover new worlds, simply doesn't hold up under the weight of procedural limitations.   The interactions with aliens are entertainingly worded, but again, shallow and repetitive, as is resource collection and trade. These galactic duties are perhaps repetitive in reality, true, but where's the sense of danger in walking a few hundred meters to get that mineral, whilst the temperature is dropping 2 degrees a second? Where's the fear when you enter a planet's atmosphere, wondering if your ship will hold together? I can't really 'feel' that sense of exploration.  These are my criticisms, and something that I hope can be resolved. Sean Murray had the very best of intentions for our collective experience in NMS, I sincerely believe that. and you can see them throughout his creation - however, I can't help but feel that the game would have been more interesting if it wasn't entirely procedural - A single star system, where getting to your home planet was key - each planet uniquely different, with bordered 'maps' like Destiny, rich with unique plant life and atmosphere. As a discovery and exploration game, that would have been incredible. It makes me long to relive that first thrilling walk along the lonely coast of Dear Esther.  So should you buy the game? I will say this, make an assessment based on what I've mentioned in this review, but regardless of your decision, consider that the small team responsible wanted to build the game that WE wanted NMS to be, and perhaps they'll get there. But regardless, respect has to be paid for dreaming and aiming big.","hours":6.2,"funny_percent":0.018995929443690638,"helpful_percent":0.8300542740841248}
{"review":"I've played 11 hours of this. Needless to say, it's not going to stray away from the other reviews on it. It's a failed promise. The developers said that, upon release, the game would have a whole lot of bells and whistles, that ended up not existing in this game.   I have never refunded anything on Steam before, so I thought I might get a little leniency having put 11 hours into it. (I'll grant you 2 hours is 2 hours, but I needed to see for myself if there really is anything more. This was within the 14-day period. And after I tried refunding it, I haven't played it since. But no such luck.) Moral of the story is, buyer beware, don't be the first of the first to try a product. Especially not in todays gaming marketplace. More likely than not you'll end up with a steamy log of false promises.  Don't buy this unless you're prepared to be disappointed.   PS I'll return to this game in a while and see if the developers make good on their promises, and i'll revise this review to reflect that.","hours":11.7,"funny_percent":0.017660044150110375,"helpful_percent":0.8896247240618101}
{"review":"So I never knew space was so boring.  No man's Sky is a great idea that just never lived up to the hype. For the record I have had none of the technical issues that most players have had, and have around 10 hours on the game at writing this.   The problem of the game is simply this. There is nothing epic in this game. No real reason to travel to the center of the universe, except to maybe see a cut scene or something similar hopefully making the game worth it.   Once you have had an hour in the game, mined some stuff, catalogged some animals, done some repairs to your ship, and flown into space, that is pretty much it. Gameplay is repetative and more then a little grindy. Everytime you take off your ship burns 25% of its total fuel. You fly usally less then 30 seconds, land near an unexplored point, (which are bland and unmemorable), click on the point, record that you found it, rinse, repeat. Then since the game is so much fun you need to tediously mine low grade minerals to fuel your ship, power your laser, and keep life support running. Which you need to keep doing because you consume a lot of resources. Then when you mine too much you get attacked by the sentinel ♥♥♥♥bots, because, you know, mining is so much fun they need to make the game more annoying.  There is a simple crafting system in the game that has done nothing to grab my attention. The ships are exactly alike in every way except the way they look and how much storage they have. If you didn't mind grinding constantly to keep supplied and liked the look of the first ship in game, there is literally no reason to upgrade otherwise. They manuever the same, they accelerate the same, they feel the same, just look a little different. Same with your multitool. All of them are exactly the same, except look, and storage.  Lastly there are the alien races in the game. The ones that always stand in the same spots in their drab little settlements on every planet you visit are boring and have no real AI. The best part about them is that you can't understand them at all until you fly around to even more points, to go to ancient ruins and the such, to attempt to learn their language. One single word at a time. That's right kiddies, at 10 hours in, I have compiled somewhere around 50 words and still have no F'ing clue what they are talking about. Usually around the aliens are mathmatical puzzles to unlock items or to highlight yet another place for you to go to, which is fun right? No. These puzzles are usually noticing a pattern in numbers and could be solved easily by the average 2nd grader. Also where are the Alien cities or the like? The only thing that aliens do in this game is make you feel a little more insignificant, because actually you aren't discovering anything. You are just renaming stuff they apparently already found and are sitting on. Aliens on every world. That isn't exploring, its sightseeing.  Sadly I guess I am just bitter. I really, really wanted to like this game. I wanted the feeling of epic adventure that we all dream would accompany exploration and space travel. The game just doesn't deliver. I will keep playing the game for a bit just to see if there is anything else waiting for me over the next dune, so to speak, but I am not confident anything will be over that horizon.  Lastly, WTF is up with all the pastel colors. They don't have real greens, etc. in space?  Epic idea, poorly executed, and not worth a price tag of $60. This is why I never preorder a game.  Wait for this to be less then $20, and hopefully it will be upgraded with some revision and DLC by then.","hours":15.1,"funny_percent":0.040764624596959925,"helpful_percent":0.8263473053892215}
{"review":"Too expensive for what it offers! Don't buy. ","hours":58.3,"funny_percent":0.021052631578947368,"helpful_percent":0.8921052631578947}
{"review":"I think the 40,000 other negative reviews covered everything","hours":35.1,"funny_percent":0.6997971602434077,"helpful_percent":0.8701825557809331}
{"review":"Why is this game still $60?","hours":9.6,"funny_percent":0.10847457627118644,"helpful_percent":0.8593220338983051}
{"review":"Learned a good lesson with buying this game: Don't board the hype train. I really wanted to like this game after I bought it (The $150 Explorers Edition). The game is boring and you are stuck doing the same crap from planet to planet. It would have been a good game at $10 because it feels like a unfinished beta. It has so many missing features. This is not the game that they showed in the trailers.","hours":44.1,"funny_percent":0.045638571954361426,"helpful_percent":0.8259109311740891}
{"review":"*Note: This game was posted 1 week after it got released I will not be updating my review for any future updates.*   \"No Man’s Sky is a game about exploration and survival in an infinite procedurally generated galaxy\"  That is what this game was supposed to be a game with an amazing galaxy which you could explore with loads of features which were promised. But in reality we got a game that is all about grinding.  You start of with a crashed space ship on a planet, you will have to find resources to repair your ship, which is a relatively easy task unless you spawned on a planet with almost no resources which was my case. After you finished that you can finally explore the \"infinite procedurally generated galaxy\" but after around 10 hours of gameplay you will realise that the \"infinite galaxy\" with \"endless possibilities\" doesn't really have \"endless possibilities\" especially with the planets. When you played the game and paid attention to details you will know there are only a few types of planets: \"water planets with a few islands, extreme planets, ice planets, dead rocks with no form of life and plants, hot planets and planets with a lot of flora and fauna\". all of these types of planets for example two different ice planets all have very similar flora and fauna which gives you a feeling that you already explored that planet while you didn't.  Once you saved up enough for a new space ship, buying your first space ship is very exciting you get excited you are hoping for a faster ship, you want to rename your ship as they promised in the trailer, you hope you will have cool weapons for your ship. But after flying for a couple of minutes you will realise that your ship functions the same as your first ship, there is no different speed in any of the space ships, you don't have ships optimized for combat, trading or exploring which was also promised you can't even rename your ship which was of course also promised.  The space combat is not exciting either, you are always out numbered and the space pirates have 100% accuracy. The space combat feels boring and annoying, every time you are traveling with your pulse drive those space pirates show up you will think to yourself: \"god why?\" Of course you can decide to ignore the space pirates by flying into the atmosphere of a planet or a space station, but then again they won't follow you in the atmosphere which was also shown in the trailer.  if you happen to find a portal at a planet don't even bother to try activate those things they aren't working, this was also promised in a trailer by the way. Want to play with your friends like Sean Murray said in a interview, don't even try you can't. If you happen to come across a research facility you can shoot your way inside, if you fire a couple of rounds at the door then the sentinels will come after you, but don't worry about that just shoot the door until you are inside then the sentinels will leave you alone, you can just ignore them because they are barely any threat.  I think I made my point here the game is repetitive, boring and after a while it just turns into a grinding simulator.  It's really a shame to see the game end up like this I've been following development since 2014 and have been hyped about it since I knew about it. But if you compare the trailers to the actual product you will realise that Sean Murray has been lying. I am done defending this game I defended it for a couple of weeks but ever since I saw playstation users are getting updates I am done defending it. The developers took a huge♥♥♥♥♥♥on all PC users.  Coming to a verdict I am giving this game a 4/10 it was fun for a couple of hours after that it becomes boring and repetitive. I recommend for the sake of your 60 euros to stay away from this game as far as possible.","hours":29,"funny_percent":0.042789223454833596,"helpful_percent":0.8605388272583201}
{"review":"Exploring your first planet, observing the life that inhabits it, learning words of an alien language, making first contact with another intelligent race, upgrading your ship with blueprints you found in abandoned outposts. These are all things you will do when you first dive into No Man’s Sky, and it will be exciting.  Then, after a short time and a handful of systems later, just a few short light years closer to the center of the galaxy than you started - it will dawn on you that you’ve seen all there is to see, experienced all the vast cosmos has to offer. You set out into the infinite and unknowable universe, only to become tediously familiar with it.   Your spirit of adventure will quickly fade when you realize that you aren’t an explorer, or a pioneer venturing into the unknown. You’re a tourist on a space safari. The premise that you’ll be discovering anything is a facade that will quickly fall away once you realize that every system has a space station, and every planet is littered with monoliths and outposts. A scan on a planet will reveal that a “Point of Interest” lies a stone’s throw away in any direction.  Planets themselves will sometimes have eye-catching terrain, but once you’ve travelled a few minutes away from your ship, you’ll have essentially seen it all, as each planet is covered by one biome. The wildlife is actually fairly diverse and interesting to look at. Outside of their varied appearance, though, they seem fairly similar and don’t do much but wander around aimlessly.  The survival aspect of this game is almost non-existent. Aggressive creatures and even the sentinels pose no real threat, and are easily evaded or killed. Other than that, you just have to keep your life support going. Close your eyes, spin around, and shoot your mining laser in any random direction, and you will harvest enough resources to survive. Even on harsh planets with toxic storms, you can just stop now and again to recharge your shields from plants scattered around. The greatest challenge is keeping your sanity with your suit constantly harassing you that your life support or shields are low (75% is considered low).  Trading, crafting, NPC interactions, travelling to other systems, solving the monolith/abandoned outpost puzzles, flying, upgrading..basically all the things that make this a game, are all frustratingly generic and shallow. The first few times you do any of these things, it will be cool. The novelty quickly wears off, and you’ll have no desire to continue. In fact some of these things (especially the constant alerts, and “mini-cutscenes” that play every time you meet an alien or achieve a milestone), just serve to annoy you.  “No Man's Sky is a game about exploration and survival in an infinite procedurally generated universe.”  In my opinion, NMS doesn’t deliver on the exploration or survival. At best, you can do some interesting sightseeing and occasionally get opportunites for some damn fine screenshots. Or name creatures after♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥  That being said, I do believe there is a lot of potential here. Much of the skeleton for a great game is here, but it needs to be fleshed out. Here's to hoping.  PS - I know this \"review\" sounds harsh, opinionated and heavily salted. That's because it is. I first tried to write a more objective review but I scrapped it. It felt a lot better writing this one. So just know that I wrote this from a place of disappointment and that it is more an opinion than a fair review. just my opinion.   Edit: I do think it is a fair review.  Edit 2: I also just want to make it clear that these are my thoughts on the game as is. Despite my disappointment, I tried to write this without being influenced by what I thought the game could or should have been. I'm not measuring the game up against the hype or the game I had in mind before I played it.","hours":23.2,"funny_percent":0.03216374269005848,"helpful_percent":0.9005847953216374}
{"review":"*UPDATES BELOW* READ THIS FIRST BEFORE BEING A SNARKY D*****BAG! https://www.reddit.com/r/NoMansSkyTheGame/comments/4y4i3a/wheres_the_nms_we_were_sold_on_front_page/  AND THIS: https://www.reddit.com/r/NoMansSkyTheGame/comments/4y046e/wheres_the_nms_we_were_sold_on_heres_a_big_list/  AND THESE:  https://www.change.org/p/hello-games-compensation-for-no-man-s-sky-players  http://www.onemanslie.info/the-original-reddit-post/  Let me start out by saying that I WANTED to absolutely love this game. But after playing it  over 40 hours, enjoying what little bit there was, and having seen 90% of what the game has to offer, I can, without exaggeration, say that that FIRST Trailer video you see on Steam, almost NONE of that happens. Incredibly misleading bait-and-switch advertising at its finest. And, the people saying that they've experienced all of that themselves? Sorry, but I don't think you're being honest. Don't change the facts to fit your views. Change your views to fit the facts.  I haven't seen one single marine creature on any of the dozens of planets I have explored so far. Not one single fish, clam, shark, ray, whatever the heck you want to call them alien creature in those vast oceanic worlds. I've yet to see ANY \"rhino\" type monster rushing through trees and causing debris and trees to fall as it chases prey. I've yet to see a single giant striped dinosaur (or anything striped for that matter). The asteroids are NOT shaped like that. They are goofy weird long looking things and a lot more sparse than the movie shows. You won't EVER be flying behind a formation of ships in an attack pattern to group-attack some formation of enemies or freighters.    The landscapes NEVER form that smoothly and quickly, even on my SSD. The graphics aren't that neat and crisp, and I have a rig that I just built myself and got top of the line EVERYTHING. Money was no object. ALL of the alien creatures make the same noises. All of them. I estimate there are maybe....what. like 20 different ship designs total? Really sad. Want to visit a thriving alien metropolis? Doesn't exist. The ONLY place you actually see more than ONE alien together in the same room, is at the spacial anomaly stations. Two. Total. Just TWO. You want to see your friends exploring by chance on another planet, or any other player for that matter? Too bad. It doesn't actually happen, either. They lied about that. I have never felt more robbed on a purchase in a game in my life. Never. $60 for this? $60. Think about that. This long in development, THIS hush-hush about its content, and $60 for such a huge gamble.   I honestly upgraded my PC with this game as one of the biggest motivators to do it in the first place, and THIS is what we get. And since I gave it a legitimate shot and played it over 2 hours, I can't refund it. I really, really wanted to love this game. I did. But right now, I rate it at a 5/10. That's it. It's average. They promised so many things and delivered maybe half of what they hyped up in interviews and on articles on websites. This broke my heart. I hope they patch and add so many other things (Like gas giant planets, ringed planets, different freakin' gravity levels for MOONS and different sized planets for the love of pete!). Gun/weapon modes? Three. PEWPEW bolt blaster, BZZZZZZZT mining laser, and KABOOM plasma grenades. That's it folks. And so far in my ship? two attack beams.l PEWPEW lasers and BZZZZZT mining laser. Ship controls are abhorrant. Literally the most terrible clunky \"flight sim\" control I've ever felt in a game. I'm just so terribly disappointed.   I had such high hopes! I really did. Please, Hello Games, add more content! Add more realism! Make the space stations look DIFFERENT inside! And guess what you'll spend most of your time doing in the game? Playing inventory tetris. That's right. You are so incredibly limited on inventory space across both your suit and starship cargo, it's just ridiculous. Like a sardine can you have to fit a watermelon inside. Oh!!!! but yet you have to stockpile SO many minerals to be able to craft and upgrade. Really makes it hard to do that, guys, when we can only carry the materials to upgrade one single thing at a time, and sacrifice carrying fuel and needed components. Ugh!  ****As an addendum, I will say: the graphics are beautiful when fully loaded (which is slow, honestly even on an SSD. Boggles my mind. 16 gigs RAM and 8 gigs video RAM. I don't get it. Perhaps I need to adjust something). The exploration IS fun. Finding strange things in space and on planets IS fun and exciting, and I have enjoyed that aspect immensely, but this is space, and part of the selling points of the game are the huge variety of, well, everything --- but it's not the case. Before you troll my review, please be sure to play as much as I have and see if your opinion changes. Thanks.  *****UPDATE - I DID finally see one sea creature. A big predatory weird giant tadpole fish. One. In a world almost totally covered by ocean, I saw ONE fish. I swam around for about a half hour trying to find another. No luck. And yet again, I pass by several building landmarks that cannot be entered, no entrance to break open or walk through, no way to bomb around them and get in.  *****UPDATE - Game said I acquired Atlas 3 pass. Nowhere in crafting menu. Nowhere anywhere in inventory. Restarted game, nowhere to be found. Reverted to old save, repeated process, said I acquired the blueprint: nowhere to be found, anywhere, not in crafting menu, ship menu, tool menu. Nowhere. LOL  *****UPDATE - some of the crafting patterns require elements that are so rare and hard to find it's just not worth the hassle involved. The sentinels are so weak and easy to kill - I landed on a moon filled with little ugly aggressive crab creatures who swarmed me and killed me, but I've never been in any danger from the big bad scary sentinels. LOL Even the mech walkers are just an easy pathetic joke to kill. Zero difficulty. What's going on, Hello Games? How about triple the damage and armor/health of the sentinel walkers and dogs? How about add more sentinel enemy types?","hours":53.6,"funny_percent":0.040949842500605765,"helpful_percent":0.8165737824085292}
{"review":"Let's get a couple things out of the way first. Number one, this is going to be one of the most honest reviews you'll see on this game. I'm not a troll, I'm not a fan boy... I said I would buy this game when its price was lowered to less than $40 and that's exactly what I did for the experience alone.  Now, before I can discuss the various aspects of the game I need to address the elephant in the room and get past it first.   No Man's Sky is one of the biggest lies that I've ever seen. Don't get me wrong, this wont affect my review, but it needs to be said. Sean Murray is one of the most deceptive, and despicable developers I have ever seen. He blatantly lied on national television, online, etc about features in this game that don't exist (even now many months after release). It's why the dev team is/was being investigated in the UK for false advertising. Don't take my word for it, search \"No Man's Lie\" or \"One Man's Lie\" and you'll find all the evidence you need.  That said, below is my review of the game. If you want a shortened version, just skip to the final verdict at the bottom.   Overview  The game throws you onto a planet and giving you a waypoint to your crashed ship with very little else to go on. You have a mining tool, probably a failing suit to the environment (acid rain, cold, heat, etc), and need to struggle to survive while repairing your ship. Once repaired, the galaxy is your limit. There is absolutely no hand holding here, it will be a struggle (on survival mode).   Graphics  This game is visually \"beautiful\"... but also extremely ugly at the same time. Looking at planets and walking around them looks amazing. The effects looking around and flying are fantastic. But the ground textures are EXTREMELY blurry, planets look one way in space and as you get closer change drastically. AA effects are choppy, and animals look almost made out of clay. There are some significant graphics issues with this game that takes away from the experience (even when maxed out).   Storyline  This game features an almost non-existent storyline. You get a main questline to obtain recipes... but it's not very up front and doesn't really do anything to tell a story. You don't understand these new races, and don't feel like you're apart of their struggle. You never find out why you're there, or what you were up to. You don't get a grasp of the galaxy and how it's laid out and just move from one system to another to eventually get to the center (which, the outcome is absolute trash and swift kick in your pants).   Side Questing  There are a LOT of side things you can do in this game, not really quests so much as \"give one of -these- to an alien\" who in turn gives you reputation or recipes. Or learning a language word from one of three races. Reputation does absolutely NOTHING for your character or the story. You can't pick sides in a conflict, and you can't change your destiny based on your interactions. The interactions have NO effect what so ever on the galaxy. Once you've collected all of the recipes and brought a cube, or isotope to an alien, it just repeats. Completely repetitve and boring.   Combat  General combat is fluid and fun. The worst aspect about combat is currently what should be the most important... space combat. Design flaws exist that really have me scratching my head (like the fact that in the middle of a dogfight I need to open my inventory and manually repair my ship while still flying and fighting). No hotkeys, no hot bar, nothing. Incredibly frustrating. Ground combat involves fighting drones (sentinels) or aggressive animals. Pretty bland, but smooth enough. You can pretty much avoid all sentinels by sprinting away from them. They give up looking for you even when standing in an open field in front of them.   Skills, and Upgrades  No skills to be had unless it's an upgrade to your multi-tool or ship. Very little in the way of character development and if you find a new tool or ship, that's your instant gratification. Upgrades are crafted, which can be frustrating for people who just want to explore and not grind (farm). Getting ships is also a chore, or expensive depending on how you obtain them.   Game Performance  I run a PC with the following specs:  AMD FX-8370 (8 core CPU) @ 4.01ghz G.Skill RAM 16GB @ 1600mhz Asus GTX 1080 8GB Windows 10  I can run the game at 30-60fps on 1920 x 1080 with the graphics settings maxed out. Generally I get about 30fps on the ground and 60fps from the air. Which when you look at the blurry textures, the HORRENDOUS pop in (which I've crashed more than once into a cliff face because of how slow the terrain pops in), short viewing distance, etc... I should be doing a lot better here. I absolutely blow this game away with my specs and yet, it struggles. Definitely in need of a significant optimization pass, even though this game launched as a FULL retail release. Not an alpha.   Final Verdict  This game is fun for ONLY two people. Casuals who want to explore and just fly around. Second are hardcore fans. These are guys that stuck with the game from the beginning and don't mind the grind (they'll also defend it with their last breath and probably even vote this review down). But if you're a survivalist, like space games, etc... there are other options out there for you. This game is NOT for you. With the state of the game, poor performance, and other annoying development decisions... I have to downvote this game. Even after the Pathfinder and Base Building updates. 40+ hours into the game and I'm unimpressed.   This game should have done two things... been classed as an Early Access game from the start and been priced at $30. This would have saved them from the terrible reviews and they could have explained away the blatant lies with that. But Sean Murray never ONCE explained himself afterwards. He never sat down with the angry consumers and explained why he said there was no multiplayer, large scale fleet battles, and more. If I were him I would have done an ask me anything live (like on Twitch), and explained everything. If it was Sony to be blamed, he needed to blame them. Something to make people understand WHY.   With its pro's and con's and there's too many to fit into my review here (character limits)... I give this game a solid 6/10. It's ALMOST there in terms of being something I could recommend. I followed this game from the first announcement... and it failed on so many levels. I watched the launch, and followed the updates before I recently purchased this. If I hadn't paid less than $40, I would be irrate. I can see why it's rated so low.","hours":41.1,"funny_percent":0.0216998191681736,"helpful_percent":0.8625678119349005}
{"review":"As it stands this game isn't what it was supposed to be, it's just an endless grind that leads to nothing. I don't mind games where you have to grind materials, exp etc as long as there's some sort of payoff, currently there appears to be none. An infinite universe of carbon, which is pretty much used exclusively to power the stuff you used to get the carbon... fun.  Comparatively, I still play Escape Velocity to this day as that felt like a living universe with stuff to do, goals to achieve and massive great ships to eventually attain. I had hoped to have the same experience with this as I had with that, but alas this appears to be the bare bones (and not all of them at that) of what the game was supposed to be. I'm afraid the flesh and the rest of the bones will come in the form of paid DLC and considering what we've been given for £40, I don't have much hope for it.","hours":11,"funny_percent":0.0413625304136253,"helpful_percent":0.8406326034063261}
{"review":"I tried REALLY hard to like this game.  You shouldn't HAVE to try to like a game.  It's a $20 indie title passed off at $60 AAA.  Sooo, after giving the game over 25 hours.... I've officially given up on it. It irks me that the fake game trailer that they tried to pass off as actual gameplay footage is still the first video on steam for this game. THE GAME DOES NOT LOOK LIKE THAT. Seriously, how the ♥♥♥♥ is that NOT false advertising? Yeah i know a lot of games do that♥♥♥♥♥♥but that doesn't make it right.  The game is just a nothing game.. boring and empty. Which is a shame because it looked like it had a lot of potential. It just seems like they didn't get around to adding any content for it. Some people like it, I'm glad you guys found something worthwhile in it. I wish i could say the same... but another walking simulator with some bad space combat thrown in isn't a game i want to spend anymore time in.  Absolutely the LAST time i ever pre-order anything on the basis of E3 videos and developer hype.","hours":26.5,"funny_percent":0.030107526881720432,"helpful_percent":0.8091397849462365}
{"review":"I’ve really given this game a chance, but is not what it seems. Despite being presumably gigantic, is actually pretty poor in content. All resources look the same way on each planet, all the structures found on planets look the same way (I’ve found the same 3 types of aliens all across the explored universe). Even if somehow the planets are different (with different plants and ridiculous looking animals), you can feel that basically they are the same stuff. Also I’ve found that many of the animals start to look the same way after you’ve explored a number of planets. Also the space stations look EXACTLY the same in all solar systems. So bottom line, this game had been better off if the developers hand-made 10 awesome planets, instead of randomly generating endlessly the same things. Oh, and yes, there is not much to do in this game really and I’ve discovered over and over again the same technology (technology tree is very limited too).","hours":24.5,"funny_percent":0.030737704918032786,"helpful_percent":0.8258196721311475}
{"review":"This game has two different endings.  1. Finding the Center of the Galaxy 2. The Refund ending.  Spoilers!! The Refund Ending is the better option. 10/10 Best Periodic Table collecting simulator ever!","hours":18,"funny_percent":0.8229398663697105,"helpful_percent":0.8088344469190795}
{"review":"Tried very hard to enjoy the game and see it through. A mile wide but and inch deep is the perfect analogy for this experiment. Not worth the $60 price tag.","hours":48.8,"funny_percent":0.028257978723404256,"helpful_percent":0.8068484042553191}