{"review":"Ugh","hours":4.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"screen is messy controls are bad , I get dizzy from playing it and my eyes ♥♥♥♥ing hurt        Opinion","hours":1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"Hotline Miami 2.  Oh boy where do i start? Well gameplay just like the first one. Story is pretty OK. Soundtrack is complete trash.  I recommand not buying 2, but the first hotline miami","hours":11.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"tHIS GaMe is LaMe. Its not roblox, its not minecraft, its not running on source, its top down because the developers are to lazy to make it 3-D. Plus, the story is no sense, confuzzled by it. ITS onLy PiXeLs tooooooooooooooooooo. this game honestly likes men","hours":5.7,"funny_percent":0.2,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"unable to recommend because the map design on some levels is so horrible the game loses any sense of fun and just becomes ♥♥♥♥ing impossibly difficult  to devs= bigger maps+long range soliders+ limited ammo= impossible to beat not fun level","hours":16.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.16666666666666666}
{"review":"Disappointment, copy of the first game but with lazy level designs. It seems like the dev of this game got relaxed when his first game became a hit and said♥♥♥♥♥it I am gonna diddly doodle this sh*t and put it on the steam and get some money from it.","hours":7.3,"funny_percent":0.3333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"unfixed linux bug spoils the gameplay: http://hotlinemiami.wikia.com/wiki/Death_Wish#Bugs. it makes game even more frustrating then it is normally.","hours":19.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.5}
{"review":"You'd think that if you liked the original, you would like the sequel, but I think it strays too far from what made Hotline Miami such a fun and addictive game in the first place.  In this game, the levels are bigger, but bigger isn't always better and the large open areas lead to a less concise, tactical feeling that the original game offered. I also don't remember quite so many guns being in the original game, as it feels like melee weapons are worthless trash that only serves to make it more difficult to pick up a new gun when you need one. In fact, many of your deaths in this game will be from trying to pick up a weapon only to find out that your character decided to pick up a useless melee weapon or empty gun instead, which feels like an incredibly cheap way to die. Since the levels are so much bigger this time around, it's all the more frustrating when you die to the last 1 or 2 enemies since that means there's just that much more to have to do all over again.  The fun of picking masks with different effects to change your strategy is pretty much completely gone. There are different masks to choose from sometimes, but only on specific characters in the multiple-character campaign, and even then the masks are more gimmicks than actual strategical advantages. For instance, the bear mask lets you start with 2 machine guns and 128 ammo. Great until you reach a point where you have 10 bullets left and you realize you're not allowed to drop the guns until all the ammo is used up and are forced to leave perfectly good guns behind because of this.  The fact that thare aren't any new features or mechanics only serves to highlight what's missing from the original, so in the end I would just suggest playing Hotline Miami 1 instead, as it's a more focused and tightly designed experience. HM2's only addition is to expand the story, which is nice and all but I loved Hotline Miami for the gameplay and the story was just an interesting bonus. Here, the gameplay suffers because the story calls for a cast of several playable characters and varying environments that simply aren't fun to play through.  Oh, also the hit detection blows. Like really really bad. I don't remember it being this bad in the first game, which is weird because I assume it's the same engine.","hours":2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6}
{"review":"Well how do I start... Hotline Miami was one of the most awesome indi games out there. This game isn't. Masks were an important feature in the first game, allowing different playstyles. The close quater level design suited the gameplay perfectly. The fairly low ammount of direct storytelling was good. Violence was a main element of the game. The gameplay was fast and challenging but not unfair.  So why not restrict the masks right? Or remove them for large parts completly? Or even better! Make an awesome new mask but fu*k up the controls so badly that is is basically unusable and then force the player to use it in a level? Yeah. Close quater level design to suit and emphasise melee combat? Why not include long hallways or even better: large, open spaces that pretty much force you to use your gun. The large ammount of storytelling cleared up some of the confusion from the last game but was unnecessary. Violence as a main element. Yes it kinda is. Except for one character that doesn't use leathal stuff. Great when the map is open and you can't use guns. This changed the gameplay from fast-paced to drawing enemies towards you and killing them around the corners. Challenging? Yes! Fair? No! Enemies with pinpoint accuracy and 360-degree field of view hardly seem fair.  By the time I'm writing this review I haven't finished the game but I have to say, this game is a major step down from the first part.","hours":6.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"Pros:  -The level editor. Basically unlimited amount of levels.   -They tried. They really did. Gotta give them some credit for that. I did enjoy this game even though I give this game a thumbs down-review.   Cons:   -The level design. It's nothing like in Hotline Miami and not in a good way. Most of the levels are too big which makes them tedious and not as fun as in Hotline Miami 1. Also the glass panels. Dear God, the glass panels. They're everywhere.   -The doors. Why do they have to suck so much? How do they sometimes knock down enemies when the door doesn't even touch them? How come sometimes the enemy just gets knocked down and doesn't die if he is touching a door and you shoot the enemy with your shotgun and all of the shotgun pellets hits the enemy except one that hits the door? Why does the door have to swing constantly if you or one of the enemies is touching it? How many times do you have to fail at getting a good combo because of a door?  -The soldier/Beard/Hawaii levels. Hotline Miami 1 is one of my favourite games. That's why I bought Hotline Miami 2. I played the soldier levels and, oh boy, aren't they boring and bland. The soldier levels don't feel like they even share the same \"core\" with the levels in Hotline miami 1 or the other levels in Hotline Miami 2.   -Clunky controls. The controls feel a lot clunkier than in Hotline Miami 1. Sometimes my cursor gets \"stuck\" in the side of the screen. Sometimes the character I'm controlling turns slower than usual for some reason. I didn't have any of these problems in Hotline Miami 1.   -Lack of individual choice and combo-orientation. Remember when you had several ways of completing a level in Hotline Miami 1 and you could use different tactics with different masks? What the developers did with Hotline Miami 2 is that they took away most of the masks and you have a maximum amount of four masks to choose from in a level. There are five Fans' levels where you have four masks that are Zebra (roll dodge), Tiger (lethal punches but no weapons allowed), Swans (chainsaw and guns, fun but difficult when trying to shoot from a doorway and the swan using guns sometimes gets stuck) and Mark (two machine pistols).  There are two Jake levels, where you have three masks to choose from that are Cobra (lethal throws), Viper (silent nail gun) and Black Mamba (basically same as Tiger).  There are three Son's levels where you have three \"techniques\" to choose from that are Dirty Hands (same as Tiger), Bodyguard (roll dodge and katana) and Bloodline (same as Mark).  Out of 27 acts in Hotline Miami 2, only in 10 of those levels you can choose a mask (Son's levels included). You have 26 different masks to choose from on every stage in Hotline Miami 1 (excluding hospital level and Biker levels). As you can see, the developers considerably reduced the amount of personal choice of tactic to complete a level in Hotline Miami 2, which makes the game seem more boring to me.  Remember when in Hotline Miami 1 there were several ways to get an A+ on a level? You could be a sadistic executioner with a drill or punch everyone to death with your fists or clear the level faster than you could spell the word Miami or just get sick combos and get an A+. In Hotline Miami 2 with the reduced amount of individuality, basically the only way of getting an A+ is by getting combos. That's what I mean by combo-orientation of Hotline Miami 2. This also makes Hotline Miami 2 seem more boring to me compared to Hotline Miami 1.   -The story. The overall \"vibe\" I get from Hotline Miami 2 is very different compared to the \"vibe\" I get from Hotline Miami 1. Hotline Miami 1 had little to no story at all. One of the points of Hotline Miami 1 was that if you actually wanted to have some sort of explanation, you really had to work for it. Hotline Miami 1 wasn't about the story itself. Hotline Miami 2 really differs from Hotline Miami 1, because Hotline Miami 2 seems to really focus on the story. It feels nothing like Hotline Miami 1 and it wasn't what I really expected from Hotline Miami 2.  -The music. One of you will probably murder me for this, but I didn't think that the music was as good as in Hotline Miami 1. I think that Hotline Miami 1 has really memorable soundtrack. I don't think that the soundtrack in Hotline Miami 2 is nearly as memorable as in Hotline Miami 1. Sure there are a few great tracks, but the overall music doesn't seem to be as good as in Hotline Miami 1.   -Some minor and quite insignificant things. When you swing an enemy with an iron pipe and nothing happens for some reason./ When a guy with a shotgun runs in front of a guy running with a melee weapon and you shoot straight at the guy with the shotgun but somehow you managed to kill the guy with the melee weapon and you get shot by the guy with the shotgun./ When you have those fat guys who can be killed only with firearms and those crooks that can be killed only with melee weapons or execution at the same floor./ When you get shot by someone off screen and you have to memorize the location of this enemy./ ENDING SPOILER ./ When the character you're controlling almost never picks up the weapon you want it to pick up from a weapon pile and you're in a hurry to get a good combo./","hours":26.8,"funny_percent":0.04878048780487805,"helpful_percent":0.5853658536585366}
{"review":"Some mechanic are changed, levels to big, inpossible A+ , controls bad, wall can slow you, EA to fast...","hours":6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"Hotline miami 2: wrong number. The 2 stands for following:  - 2 Long - 2 Random - 2 Hard - 2 bad it´s not the first game  I don´t recommend this. Play the first game, don´t bother with this.","hours":14.4,"funny_percent":0.2,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"The game is full of bugs","hours":41.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.3333333333333333}
{"review":"Liked HM1. This one's a bit too hard for my taste though. Can be frustrating.","hours":3.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.5}
{"review":"Would love the game but the controls are stubbornly bad too many time for me to bother. It's got immense potential and the early levels were fun and exhilerating, but it stops being fun when you character doesn't feel like holding onto the shotgun for no discernable reason.  Definitely reccomend it, but these controls ESPECIALLY MOUSE CONTROLS THAT GET RESTRICTED AT DISTANCES are absolute♥♥♥♥♥","hours":1.3,"funny_percent":0.4,"helpful_percent":0.4}
{"review":"so.... you're new to pc gaming? i know you have♥♥♥♥♥♥taste in both music and games, but really, you bought Hotline Miami 2: Wrong Number? What is the matter with you? Refund that piece of♥♥♥♥♥♥ right now! It's a♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ing game and i had to mute the♥♥♥♥♥♥soundtrack and listen to the sountrack of Stand By Me instead.","hours":0.3,"funny_percent":0.12,"helpful_percent":0.08}
{"review":"Hey i got an idea lets make a violent fast paced shooter, but we are broke so lets make it 2d, but we are lazy so we cant make long so lets make it a instadeath game. So you die all the time and thus it takes forever to finish. Lets also make it tactical but hey we suck at programmign with the ai and suck with controls, screw it we're gonna say the game is meant to be like that...whats that we are getting 9s ? Great lets make a sequel.","hours":4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.09090909090909091}
{"review":"Not fun, this is a torture device. I enjoyed the first one with it's difficult but fair gameplay but this?...nah, good ol torture this is, i must've played the same level for about two years now. The game isn't bad, but it isn't fun either.","hours":6.9,"funny_percent":0.5,"helpful_percent":0.5}
{"review":"0/10. Didn't get a grip.","hours":31.5,"funny_percent":0.14285714285714285,"helpful_percent":0.5714285714285714}
{"review":"Umm it's not bad but i dont really think that it is really that good either i think the original was better blyad...","hours":1.3,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"I don't know how they did it, but I consider this sequel a step back from the glorious first one! Not even half as immersive, feels pointless and repetitive.","hours":4.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"bad level design","hours":19.8,"funny_percent":0.5,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"I enjoyed HM1 and I thought this game would be more of the same, but I was mistaken. The level design feels worse to me. There are too many enemies with guns which slows the game down too much.","hours":8.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.5555555555555556}
{"review":"If you loved the previous Game you will hate this one its pure♥♥♥♥♥♥","hours":0.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"The game controls even worse than Hotline Miami 1, it feels too sloppy and floaty.","hours":7.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"I want to write a good review for this game because of its great soundtrack and its excellent storytelling, but I can't. There's this game-breaking lack of saving that's ruining every playthrough i've ever attempted at trying to complete the game. After act II Rising, the game refuses to save my progress and as a result I will never be able to complete this game, therefore, I do not recommend it.","hours":5.7,"funny_percent":0.16666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.5}
{"review":"Sucks that the original Hotline Miami consisted of passageways and rooms and you could either go with guns or melee. In Hotline Miami 2, the levels tend to consist of large open spaces key to using melee to get a weapon and finish the level. Harder than the 1st due to map design such as glass and offscreen enemies with wide open spaces.   Highly recommend the soundtrack to this game though.","hours":7.2,"funny_percent":0.027777777777777776,"helpful_percent":0.5833333333333334}
{"review":"I rate games on a 1-5 scale ala X-PLAY (no decimals)  There isn't much to see here. The weakest point of the original was the plot as not much is remidied. In the sequel you play as I believe 5 different characters in a completely random timeframe that both interconnect but never really intertwine leaving you more confused than ever. Nothing is really explained nor are characters stories given much context. It all ends on an acid trip of a final level that just makes you wonder why you bothered. Personally I find Hotline Miami 2 to be a big dissapointment as so much could have been improved upon. There is not much in terms of new enemies and while the expanded characters is cool it is done so poorly it is tough to care. Essentially it is just random levels that you just play to make it thruough.   The only real praise I'll give the sequel is for having some more difficult and longer levels as well as being more creative with level design but that is about it. There is nothing much new here. So unless you are a die hard fan I can't say that this is worth the 4-5 hours of your time. While the price may justify it, the content does not.  2/5","hours":7.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"Product received for free  really bad","hours":16.1,"funny_percent":0.05263157894736842,"helpful_percent":0.05263157894736842}
{"review":"Game for nostalgic players.","hours":30.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.36363636363636365}
{"review":"The Story is great, Level Design is terrible. They took what made HM 1 great and threw it out the window. These Levels are HUGE and really makes it even more frusterating.","hours":5.3,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.5555555555555556}
{"review":"I really loved the first one but this one just doesn't feel right. While deaths felt like own mistakes after a while in the first part, here off screen enemies make it feel much more random if you succeed. It further lacks atmosphere and an equally good story so all in all it felt just like a worse game to me.","hours":3.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"This is basicaly a rage game with a well writen story. The levels are too open and you can't see very far witch means you get sniped in half a nano second. The ai responds at lightning speeds which makes this game unplayable for players like myself who are not fast enought. By no means is this a bad game. It's fun when I can pass a level but dying 5 times a minute is very frustrating.","hours":2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"man this ♥♥♥♥in game is like a bunch of chinese stole all the hotline miami assets and made a bad cashgrap hack game but devolver stole it back mid production and released it because they could but made no effort to improve the absolute disregard for good level design like this motherfukin game has no idea what enemy placement is YUH . I got to this big♥♥♥♥♥boat level and all the ♥♥♥♥ing enemies are walking in circles around a table while a sniper shoots me from across the map with no way to cover god damn these sweaty mother ♥♥♥♥ers were not thinking when they made this garbage. has any company ever dropped the ball so hard on a sequel like this? im strugglin to find an answer family!  soundtrack is dope, you can listen to it on youtube","hours":5.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.3333333333333333}
{"review":"honestly, theres bugs in several levels and some design choices hold it back from being a truly enjoyable experience. this includes the section with the soldier who cant switch weapons at all. the soundtrack is terrific however and the art style is a huge improvement. just wish the game was a bit more enjoyable and not as rage inducing.","hours":13.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.1}
{"review":"It's just not the first Hotline Miami. While it seems Dennaton understood that one of the reasons the first game was so good was the excellent soundtrack, they somehow managed to miss what made the mechanics so good. Remember that load screen tip in the original Hotline Miami that said \"recklessness is rewarded\"? Well, not in this game. The first game was all about small levels that were easy enough to study and repeat until you got to speedrunning levels, that encouraged keeping combos, using melee weapons, and generally feel like an integral badass with every floor you cleared. Hotline Miami 2 has none of that.  People complain about levels being too big, but it's more about being too long. While the first Hotline Miami had an average clear time per checkpoint of barely half a minute after repeating several times, some of the checkpoints in Hotline Miami 2 manage to be minutes long due to the vast size of the maps. This means that if a segment is supposed to be two minutes long, if you die after running for 100 seconds, you will be forced to repeat all of it again. In HM1 you would probably die on purpose several times to discover the most optimal path, but you can't afford the frustration of losing your minutes long progress in HM2 again so you end up playing defensively, which is most certainly not what made HM1 so good. Doesn't help that spotting enemies and deducing patrol patterns is more difficult due to most of them being out of sight.  There is also something very poor about HM2's writing. I know HM1 was never about the story, but the very little story it had was presented in such a way that made it feel like an insane fever dream, which contributed to the game's surreal and psychedelic aesthetic. But point is, HM1 really wasn't about story, and the game outright mocked you with the Biker ending if you thought it had. HM2 does have story, and it explains a lot of stuff that should have been left unexplained, such as .  All in all, it felt pretty bad to go from Hotline Miami to this. I expected more levels with the same playstyle as the first, and instead got... this thing. It's quite something, but at least the OST is superb, so if you are going to suffer, you may as well do with Roller Mobster playing in the background.  IMPORTANT NOTE FOR GNU/LINUX AND STEAMOS USERS: this game is bugged on its GNU/Linux release. For some reason, the AI doesn't behave quite the same as in other OSes. This is usually not noticeable, but makes beating some levels nearly impossible, as some enemies with ranged weapons supposed to be baiteable suddenly become intelligent and defend their position. I was able to beat the game in normal mode (you don't want to suffer hard mode, trust me) 100% in GNU/Linux by performing some absurd acrobatics, but it's probably not worth the effort. If you can, play Deathwish (literally impossible without intentionally tricking the AI into running out of ammo with a relatively safe but time consuming maneuver) and The Son levels (just absurdly difficult, but possible without tricking the AI) on the Windows version. If for some reason you can not play the Windows version, message me and I will try to provide some description on how to beat Deathwish on GNU/Linux difficulty.","hours":13.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.75}
{"review":"EDIT: I found a new issue! I tried the same level again (Casualties playing as the Soldier) I found that, for about half a second after knifing an enemy, the game won't let me switch to my gun. Absolutely brilliant. Hot garbage.  I finished HM1 and got to act 4, area 16 (Casualties) before throwing in the towel on this.  Featuring randomized enemy movement, inconsistent AI decisionmaking, and spritework that doesn't read well at the best of times (especially while the screen shifts, undulates, and muddies with neon hues,) Hotline Miami 2 (and 1 at certain times, to a lesser extent) felt like an exercise in frustration. The \"features\" listed above go in direct conflict with what it apparently wanted to be: A fast-paced action game about quick decisionmaking and lightning-fast reactions.  I can't react to enemies that aren't on the screen, have sprinted into it milliseconds ago, or blend into the background. I can't make sub-second decisions when the screen is tinted orangeish-red and I'm staring at a pile of identical bloodied corpses, waiting for one to move. I can't make reliable plans when some enemies wander randomly, doors swing around in a jittery, physics-engine-object-overlap way. I can't analyse what I did wrong, and how to improve, when I perform the same set of actions 10 times and get 10 different results.  Very few deaths felt like they were my fault, because I had no idea what I'd done wrong. Nor did any of my victories feel earned, because the optimal method of developing stategies/paths is to do the same thing a few dozen times and estimate a probability of success - and then repeating the winner of that test until I killed all the dudes.  Too much luck, too many uncontrollable variables, too many conflicting design decisions.","hours":4.6,"funny_percent":0.1,"helpful_percent":0.4}
{"review":"Such a bad game. The level design is terrible, most of the time you get killed by off-screen enemies; too many fat guys, too many guns and too many windows, the levels are too big and it's filled with bug (had to restar multiple times a chapter because of two enemies stuck behind a wall outside the map) also some of level 20 enemies (muscular detenues) kill you from behind the corner. This is not even a Hotline Miami at this point, this is just a rage game.","hours":15.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"Cant play as a lesbian biker, not recommended","hours":92.5,"funny_percent":0.375,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"Maps are too large, unpredictable AI and has less masks than the first one.","hours":20.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.3333333333333333}
{"review":"Not interesting","hours":12.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"gamesux","hours":7.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"pretty easy game, but the story is garbage and music's really weird Probably best to buy on sale","hours":86.1,"funny_percent":0.2,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"If you just want gameplay i guess it's pretty good but man was the story a dissapointment. it felt disconnected and the ending was the most underwheliming \"we ran out of money\" ending possible. and it showed a few characters who i dont think were in the story before so either they were incredibly forgetable or they never made an appearence in the final game","hours":7.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.25}
{"review":"This is a rythm game disguised as a twin stick shooter. Clearing a level feels as much like luck as skill. Sometimes you dance around and kill all the enemies and othertimes you get shot by someone off screen. Even when you use the left trigger to look around the map, you can still be shot by an enemy even farther away. Take time to lock onto a target before turning a corner? Get shot off screen.","hours":1.1,"funny_percent":0.14285714285714285,"helpful_percent":0.42857142857142855}
{"review":"A disappointing sequel. It has the same atmosphere and grittiness of the first one but with very poor map design and forced playstyles. Much of the difficulty comes from dealing enemies that shoot from outside of your character's allowed view distance, overuse of windows, and restricted weapon availability compared to the numbers and types of enemies. Rather than figuring out elegant tactical solutions you often just have to hope you come out on top in head to head melee battles against groups of enemies.","hours":10.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6666666666666666}
{"review":"Hotline Miami 2 is/was not designed with the same concepts in mind with Hotline Miami 1. Instead there's been an expanded focus on trial and error gameplay that ruin the flow of the game.  Whereas in the first game you could get by based on twitch reaction alone and carnage along with on the spot improvisition, Hotline MIami 2 does away with that and adds many (at first) unseen kill zones where enemies have line of sight farther than yourself. This is easily mitigated by using the camera look function, but it more or less requires a break in the game flow. It becomes more about spotting and relentlessly executing the \"perfect\" method of going through a level rather than innovating on the fly with real skill and instinct. It becomes less about the ultra violence and gore and more about painstakingly doing the equivalent of a human macro. When playing new levels, it's less about experiencing it viscerally and more about playing it like a dynamically shifting puzzle.  A telling sign of bad game design is the repeated use of a \"don't do that\" or \"you must do this\" game design. Don't go down that hallway. ALWAYS shoot in this direction to kill that enemy off screen from that window. If you die, you must do these repetitive behaviors again. Now stretch that concept into *entire* levels.  Hotline Miami 1's strength was the flexibility it allowed you to tackle situations. You could plan and shoot, but no battle plan survives contact with the enemy. After that, it was down to reflexes. Hotline Miami 2's levels are not only more linear, but include even more punishing guaranteed deaths along the way that interrupt a spree. So then instead of taking the catharcism from the moment, you're back to square one; repeat the same \"don't do this/do that\" motions, but add another one on top of that list. Sure, now that you've beaten the level you know them all but that doesn't exactly reduce/stop the same repetitive nonsense over and over again. And it just gets worse with some later levels.   It's simply a vastly less enjoyable experience compared to the first. This is on top of set characters for each level, no selection of masks, some levels arbitrarily limiting your weapons and abilities because of the story, so on. The music is ace, but no one's going to actually be playing the level with Roller Mobster blaring in the background and jiving to it when they're trying to plan out exactly how to address enemies with repeated deaths over and over again.  Maybe this appeals to some people, but to me it's the devs not realizing what made HM1 fun or enjoyable.","hours":5.3,"funny_percent":0.009345794392523364,"helpful_percent":0.5794392523364486}
{"review":"Hotline Miami was a superb game. The sequel is an attempt to expand. And expand it does. However I feel it expanded in the wrong direction. The number of characters completely detracts from the game, with mask unlocks being unusable for around an hour of gameplay. While each character does play quite differently, I would have much rather had each mask drastically change the game play.  Additionally, level design felt worse this time around. There are segments where the game forces you to take certain masks, such as the new Tony mask that doesn't let you pick up weapons. While this sounds like the perfect time to create a custom level for that mask the end result is peeking in and out of cover, hoping the men with guns get aggro and run over. It isn't fun, it isn't fast. It's just tedious.  Pro: -Generally frenetic game play, and improved for the most part -The soundtrack, as always -Colorful -Large variety in gameplay  Con: -Masks restricted to characters, who are in turn restricted to levels -Doors still clip into the character, causing throwing to fail a large amount of the time -Enemies have a tendency to stand inside each other  Neutral: -Vastly expanded story over the first -There was something else, but I forgot what it was.","hours":2.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0}
{"review":"Sometimes a video with the laughing Spanish guy tells you all you need to know whats wrong with this title.    YouTube™ Video: FEaeFsFsEFeFSWf  Views: 104   This game has some seriously questionable design choices that reek the further you get in the game so at this point it's very obvious the 'Very Positive' score comes from the hardcore fans who will buy anything the devs do.   As for the others: Before buying, ask yourself the question: Are you a hardcore fan who will do anything to 'git gud'?","hours":7.9,"funny_percent":0.2,"helpful_percent":0.2}
{"review":"This game is way worse than the first one by a million miles, the character abilities are extremely poorly thought ouT and frustrating DON'T BUY THIS GAME!","hours":6.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.2}
{"review":"Product received for free  bought it for only one reason... PayDay 2 Jacket character xDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDDD","hours":35.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.08333333333333333}
{"review":"still no improved graphics after first game","hours":1.5,"funny_percent":0.1,"helpful_percent":0}
