{"review":"It's like watching an ember fizzle out. Call of Duty was a major portion of my gaming life. From Finest Hour to MW3 I played it religiously. Although since MW2 I saw it start to lose. This game shows the franchise is dead. Runs very well on my current machine (GTX970, fx 6300 4.2 ghz), appears to not like on-screen-displays of your system parameters. Graphics are very good as well. Considering they already have DLC (which is outrageously overpriced at this time), it makes me think its unfinished. THE ONLINE EXPERIENCE You will sometimes wait a few minutes to find an available lobby and when you do, you see players you've met before. Over. And over. And over again. Not many people are playing. So far I haven't had any community problems, no trolls or aggressive MLG people who are screaming bloody murder that they got a 400 degree no-scope. Sadly they have also incorporated micro-transactions into the game, and on social media it appears they're inching closer to integrate EVEN MORE of them in the game. It also appears they worked more on the Zombies mode more than anything as the Spaceland map is quite large and detailed for the 2 hours I played on it.  THE STORY EXPERIENCE The story is truly forgettable, I don't really remember the name of the other characters, it also seemed rushed to end and tried to be shocking; which it was a little bit, but it became hysterically overdone.   Activision, if you're reading this; SAVE YOURSELF. \"In 2017 Activision will take Call of Duty back to its roots, and traditional combat will once again take center stage,\" quoting Activision's Amrita Ahuja, If you want to do that START LISTENING TO YOUR CUSTOMERS! No more DLC a few weeks after the game comes out, give DECENT DLC gratis, AND STOP WITH THE MICROTRANSACTIONS and \"GIMME MONEY\" business practice. People will buy your product if you show them you care about them.","hours":46.9,"funny_percent":0.027149321266968326,"helpful_percent":0.9147812971342383}
{"review":"Product received for free  I got this game for free.  I want my free back.","hours":35.9,"funny_percent":1.315403422982885,"helpful_percent":0.8926650366748167}
{"review":"Still waiting for Modern Warfare Remastered to be sold seperately...","hours":0.4,"funny_percent":0.1224237427864798,"helpful_percent":0.8726298433635614}
{"review":"Product received for free  Oh cool, another epic \"FREE WEEKEND!\" \"\"\"gift\"\"\" from infinity war- Whoops, except It isn't really a free weekend as they have (yet again) locked most of the content & gameplay with the reason that, and I quote \"You do not own this product\". It's a glorified, temporary demo which means I just downloaded 50 gb of the typical wasted potential that is the call of duty series to leave a negative review so you don't have to follow in my footsteps.  You're welcome!  ------------------  EDIT:  If you're enjoying having your time and money saved by heads-up like these, you may want to check out my curation service that aims to do just that:   http://steamcommunity.com/groups/ShitlistService  Curator tab > Follow","hours":0.1,"funny_percent":0.07099143206854346,"helpful_percent":0.8927784577723378}
{"review":"It is actually rather enjoyable, but they should've titled it a little more properly. Instead of being called \"Infinite Warfare\" It is much more appropriate to call it \"Infinite Preloading Shaders\". It also didn't seem to have the guts to throw all of their sweet space combat and zero gravity hookliney fun from singleplayer and at least have a single mode for that kind of jazz in multiplayer. It could have gone a little bit more all out with it's concept and having some nifty gadgets and gizmos like transforming guns, shield bubbles, and vortex bombs only took it so far. Let's be honest, Call of Duty isn't very balanced anymore, so why pretend it still is? Had this game thrown all rhyme and reason out the window and let the insanity of it's cool and crazy tech really shine through, it could have been outstanding. Zombies in Spaceland is quite a bit of fun because it takes off the leash of trying to be a serious zombie experience and instead lets you ride a rollercoaster in the middle of the action while blasting out to David Hasselhoff's sickest 80's jams. that burnt out quick when you realize everyone in the lobby is AFK farming for xp. to circle back to the first point made, i really do believe the only thing infinite about this game is the amount of time it takes to preload the shaders.","hours":23.1,"funny_percent":0.20036764705882354,"helpful_percent":0.8805147058823529}
{"review":"Product received for free  just sell Modern warfare remastered seperately.","hours":1,"funny_percent":0.03691813804173355,"helpful_percent":0.8603531300160514}
{"review":"Product received for free  I played this on the free weekend. I still feel robbed.","hours":0.3,"funny_percent":0.9217391304347826,"helpful_percent":0.8315217391304348}
{"review":"TLDR; For those that are fans of the COD series, enjoy, I honestly prefered BO3 over this...but there is some interesting changes which will grab your attention. I do have to compare this game to the other 2 major releases, BF1 and Titanfall 2, and when compared....it's found lacking.  First off, I should have learned my lesson pre-purchasing. I will also try to keep this in line with gameplay, and not rant about the marketing strategy of this game. I feel like every COD is 2 steps forward and 3 back for a while, and not for any specific exact reason. It's been a plethora of issues, i'll start off the top.  Cross Platform Support: No cross platform support.....on PC. Yeah, why?   Engine: Game will load an hour of shaders.....in game. If you don't it will crash...CONSTANTLY. Game will crash, without a lot of reason. Sometimes in a game, a lot of times while loading a new match. (This seems to be mainly an isue with some lines of Nvidia graphics card, for once AMD cards seem to be working, if rather low FPS. So this may be fixed with a graphic or game patch.)  Gameplay: When compared to other COD's in the past, it feels much less realistic and I just feel the game has turned into something you could stick in an arcade at a movie theater. You have to look at the dynamics of, for example, BF1. There is honest strategy, even if it is just camping a point, or laying down suppressing fire. As for the running/jumping/sliding, it just feels clumsy at times. You have to compare against games like Titanfall, and honestly this should be mroe fluid then Titanfall 1, let alone 2...and it's not. If i had to do a plus, the whole class system adds an interesting dynamic, if you can get on a roll you really become truly unstoppable, which is both good and bad in my opinion.  Graphics: I almost feel as if the remastered version has better graphics than this.....  Microtransactions: Yeah buy the best weapons in loot boxes, or spend 4 hours on an average loot box with about 5% or less chance of getting something other then a pistol. To clarify, there are 4 levels of weapons for every weapons, ranging from common, rare, epic, and legendary. Yes there are level locks so you can't get the \"Best\" gun off the bat, but you sure can get the legendary version of the basic assault rifle, and do nearly 30% extra damage, and have 30% better accuracy then everyone else.....which if you think about it, is pretty damn broken.  Overall: This feels like such a giant money grab its unbelievable. I'm not a COD/BF1/Titanfall fan boy, I honestly think if you like the previous COD's, have fun, it adds a little new; but there just doesn't feel like it brings anything new to the game. It's movement system is a step down from Titanfall 1, let alone 2. Doesn't have the strategy of Titanfall or BF1, it's perk system is cool but nothing really new. The only \"wow that's cool\" factor I got is the class system, which just seems to reward those who are doing insanely well, with op weapons to get killstreaks faster. I can't tell you how many times I spawned and died in the first 2 seconds to a camper....If your buying it for the remastered version or to play with friends cool, have fun. If your looking for a challenge, something new and excting, I honestly urge you to look at BF1 or Titanfall 2, they just bring more to the table then what this game brings.  Edit: For the people that downvote this into oblivion, it's okay, everyone is entitled to an opinion. Also if you judge by the 2 hours i spent on here don't, I was hoping things would change after the Beta....they didn't.","hours":1.9,"funny_percent":0.023255813953488372,"helpful_percent":0.8625792811839323}
{"review":"I will make a review based only on the multiplayer part of the game, and i will answer all your questions so you can decide if the game it's worth your money or not.  >T H E G O O D<   Q. It's the game running on a smooth 60fps? A. Yes, it is. I have not encountered any FPS drops and/or lag till now. All the maps are almost perfectly optimized.  (PC specs) CPU: AMD FX-8350 8cores 4Ghz  GPU: Gigabyte R9 280x 3Gb GDDR5 384-bit, 1100mhz  DDR: 16GB Kingston HyperX Blue  Q. Are the Killstreaks over-powered? A. In like any other Call of Duty there are lethal killstreaks that helps you dominate the map and killstreaks that only gets you like 1 or 2 kills, its about you to earn a bigger killstreak. But most of them do their job.   Q. It's the kill rate faster or slower compared to Black ops 3? A. It is faster, its somewhere between Black ops 3 and Ghosts, but it's perfect, not too slow but not too fast. You will always have time to turn around and kill the enemy that was shooting at you, and/or escape a fight and run away so you can regenerate your health.   Q. The new crafting system its good or not? A. I find the crafting system a big step against the pay-to-win system. As i compare Infinite Warfare with Black ops 3, all i can say is that IW wins at not being pay-to-win. You can achieve all the weapons by crafting them, later or earlier. You have to complete missions and by leveling up you will get weapon variants and also salvage and keys. Salvage can also be earned by opening crates. This system it's one of the best things that this game has to offer, because now you don't have to pay hundreds and hundreds of bucks just to get a couple weapons that should be free.  Q. The movement system feels good? A. It feels different from Black ops 3. Yes, you have the thrusters and the wall running, but the movement its slower and you get less time in the air. It feels good, at least for me.   Q. Does the rigs, payloads and traits offer something new to the game? A. The rigs are the equivalent of the Black ops 3's specialists. Every rig has it's own payloads and traits. Payloads are special weapons that you can earn by killing enemies, just like an extra killstreak. Traits are just normal perks, nothing much to say here, you just don't equip them in the create-a-class menu.   >T H E N E U T R A L<  Q. The maps are really all the same? A. Well..50-50. Because most of the maps take place in laboratories, but there are also maps that take place on earth, so you will find sunny, colourful and bright maps that you give you another feeling from the others.  Q. Does the weapons feel good? A. A big part of the new weapons have really satisfying reloading mechanics, at least for me. And you will find weapons from other Call of Duty titles, like UMP-45, Spas-12, Intervention and others. There is also a variety of ballistic & energy weapons, but most of them just can't keep you alive. If you want to achieve your killstreaks you have to play close-range and/or weapons with fast firing rate, so let's hope they will buff & nerf guns to keep all of them usefull. (I have to say that in Black ops 3, i was easily killing with weapons from any classes, so we clearly have a problem).  >T H E B A D<   Q. It's the game's anti-cheat system broken? A. As most of the people say, it is broken. In my first 10 multiplayer matches 'on different regions' i encountered two hackers. I also have to say that, after a player gets killed multiple times by someone he starts raging and calls him a hacker, so not everyone that's playing better its a hacker, but you'll notice that in the kill cams. *The review was posted on 27.11.16* Let's hope this will be fixed in the future updates.  Q. The most people are complaining about how you shoot first, and die first, is that a real problem? A. Yes, and it's the biggest problem in the game right now. I've never got that feeling from any other Call of Duty before. It feels like the weapon with the fastest fire rate wins 4/5 gun fights. All the weapons are giving you a good feeling but just a couple can make you stay in killstreak. Some say that the bullets are not registering from lag or it's just how the game works. Call of Duty was always about staying in killstreak..but if you can't anymore..well, it's not Call of Duty. It gives you the feeling of a chaotic deathmatch arena (kill 1/2 players>get killed>respawn).  Q. Is the community smaller from the last year? A. Sadly, yes. In the late hours you have to wait like 10-15 minutes to find a game of deathmatch, do not imagine you can play other modes rather than deathmatch or terminal 24/7.  >F I N A L<  Q. Does the game worth the money? A. (I also have to say that i'm owning Battlefield 1 and many other titles from both Battlefield and Call of Duty, and i enjoyed both games). This game has something to offer, but not what i want. Black ops 3 gave me a way better feeling while playing. It was easier to keep your killstreak, bigger community, variety of maps and there wasn't any problem with the bullet registering at all (again, that's the biggest issue with the game at the moment). I recommend you to buy it on sales.  I hope this review helped you in some way, thank you for reading.","hours":95.1,"funny_percent":0.0335195530726257,"helpful_percent":0.8715083798882681}
{"review":"I bought this game because i'm an idiot. Don't be an idiot.","hours":0.8,"funny_percent":0.6657936092194866,"helpful_percent":0.8046097433211106}
{"review":"I'll make this short and sweet.   The campaign has a few 'ok' missions and the same goes for multiplayer maps. 'Zombies' is cool simply for the fact of the retro games available for play in the arcade.  Overall though, the game is trash and is definitely my last purchase from Infinity Ward and the Call of Duty series altogether. They are a lazy and complacent studio that refuses to move forward within today's technologies as it applies to games on all levels. Games that came out 10 years ago had more ambition and actually pulled off things that IW either refuses to or lacks the talent to put into their games.   Good riddance to a dead franchise.","hours":66.3,"funny_percent":0.029282576866764276,"helpful_percent":0.821376281112738}
{"review":"wow what can be said to describe this game.. you can possible find a few fun multiplayer matches, but don't expect more than 4 in a row... before Dbag McDownloaded hacks joins in and goes 90 - 2, You can normally tell who the hackers are, they all have the same emblem, the cat with the green background.. If he joins your game, best to leave as they all have hacks and aimbot..  With that said, the actual game is like Black Ops 3, just magnified quite a bit, if you enjoyed BO 3, you'll enjoy IW... ok well actually you won't enjoy it, as the hackers are in about every 1 out of 5 games.. Normally they only grace you with one match, once you threaten to report them, they typically leave immediately... as if most of us are too stupid to know how to go to the friends/Recent player area and report them.  If IW ever decides to clean out, or perminant account ban hackers from every COD game from this point onward, you can continue to find them game after game, match after match.. Then Activision will wonder why their games are selling less and less copies.. Gamers are fed up with nothing being done to stop cheaters..  ","hours":57.2,"funny_percent":0.09090909090909091,"helpful_percent":0.8438228438228438}
{"review":"they allow hackers to run wild do not buy this game","hours":44.7,"funny_percent":0.08295964125560538,"helpful_percent":0.8363228699551569}
{"review":"THE COMMUNITY IS DEAD DO NOT BUY!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!","hours":30,"funny_percent":0.06180469715698393,"helpful_percent":0.8084054388133498}
{"review":"Would buy WinRar instead of this♥♥♥♥♥♥again.","hours":19.6,"funny_percent":1.1626069782751811,"helpful_percent":0.7886767610269915}
{"review":"What we learned from this game is that 1 is bigger than Infinite.","hours":7.6,"funny_percent":0.7933618843683083,"helpful_percent":0.7997858672376874}
{"review":"Call of Money: Out of Ideas","hours":2.7,"funny_percent":0.7125748502994012,"helpful_percent":0.7856287425149701}
{"review":"One of the best cods in years ruined by lack of anti cheat and lack of PC players. To me the game is a more enjoyable game than MW3, AW, Blops3, or obviously GHOSTs which makes this one of the best CODS in a pretty long time.  By cod standards an innovative campaign that is actually worth playing and thoroughly enjoyable. While not boots on the ground the boost system feels more solid than blops3 and way better than AW Guns are solid this time, but pump shotguns and some of the snipers could use some tweaks Class system is way better than Blops3 with two skills equipable, this allows for more variety in play style Kill streaks feel rewarding but not overpowered, except the Vulture which is... hilariously useless Overall very enjoyable game if you can run it and get past the PC issues, there is a great COD game at the core.  Sadly the game is a lot of fun with one of the most unique and fun campaigns in a long time. The class system also allows players to really specialize into a different style and the guns are rewarding as ever. None of this matters though since despite all the positives the game appears to have no anti cheat and what few matches you run into are ruined by blatent hackers who already have multiple existing vac bans on their account. Despite the game being very good for a COD, I would not recommend buying this on steam. Since I'm past refunding I will continue to play it on and off but for someone looking at purchasing this game I would recommend buying it on console or looking at Titanfall 2 or BF1.  TO SUMMARIZE!! I like the game a lot but I can't recommend buying it until they implement a decent anti cheat.","hours":122.9,"funny_percent":0.031791907514450865,"helpful_percent":0.7991329479768786}
{"review":"After playing the game's singleplayer I enjoyed the well written campaign that was done,the memorable characters and good voice acting which was all something I did not expect. It was very different and very enjoyable the only downside was that the gameplay could had been alot more. Why add Wallrunning and crazy antics and moves when you'll just get shot down for trying to be acrobatic and cool in combat? So thus the game sends you taking cover most of the time like any cod games.  As for the mutliplayer? It feels exactly the same as any cod I have played in the past with a few improvement and did not pique my interest one bit because it just wasn't fresh and I am simply burned out from it. That zombie multiplayer game though how in the hell is that not a spinoff game yet? I play that MORE than main multiplayer itself.  The reason I am giving this game a thumbs down is quite simply because of the overall package that I got with this game for the price which isn't enough to keep me playing for hours in the future where as I can flick on Titanfall 2 multiplayer OR Battlefield 1 and play for hours over 100+ and yes I own both game along with this now.   Video Review  YouTube™ Video: Call of Duty Inifinte Warfare Review  Views: 349 ► Subscribe! - http://bit.ly/2e1PHdn The single player campaign was good and really well written The zombie spaceland map is also great The multiplayer however, remains almost the same with a bit of...   Pros + Singleplayer Campaign + Memorable characters and great writing + Technology seen in the game, seeker grenades, antigrav grenades etc. + Futuristic guns that actually looks and sounds really cool. Pew pew + The ship control was easy and the combat in space + That one section where you get to pick which missions to handle in space and wasn't tedious or repetitive. + Zombie spaceland multiplayer + Modern warfare remaster + Baysplosions in 4k  Cons - The wallrunning and boost jumping great but gameplay in singleplayer using it will just get you shot in the face IN THE FACE thus the game ends up being mostly cover shooter like previous games. - Server connections are horrific, 8+ mins just to wait for the games to match connections with others (Why not instead of investing in esport, invest in great servers to play the damn game?\" - A bit of clunky movements on multi - The main multiplayer itself has been changed significantly enough for me to really enjoy. - Maps looks decent and some have anti grav but they did not vary much in terms of how they vary - Cheating has already made its way to kill the multiplayer even further. There is no anti cheat and this shows noone cares.   My preference is that I perfer playing Battlefield 1 team based fps followed by Titanfall 2 which is faster paced and also something I would recommend over this. If you really want to buy this game then do it for the singleplayer or maybe some zombie mayhem but do not have too much hope in the multi because it hasn' really changed much more than previous in the series. Even if you are the most hardcore/veteran of the series you might feel a bit burned out. Someone needs to get thier act together for this game, Spend some of the Esport invested money to create BETTER SERVERS, MORE FRESH GAMEPLAY, ANTI CHEAT, SOMEONE WHO LISTENS TO COMMUNITY.  Something that other games are actually doing.  Titanfall2   YouTube™ Video: Titanfall 2 attrition gameplay  Views: 341 some Titanfall 2 attrition gameplay ► Subscribe! - http://bit.ly/2e1PHdn ► Twitch Stream - http://bit.ly/2edlyqX ► Facebook - http://bit.ly/2edkJhH ► My Twitter - http://bit.ly/2eoyl7H ► Follow my...   Battlefield 1  YouTube™ Video: Battlefield 1 - TO BATTLE! Music video Montage  Views: 1,684 What to do today... If you like it, Thumbs and subbydubby ► Subscribe!!!- http://www.youtube.com/kenuty ►Facebook - http://www.facebook.com/kenuty ►My Twitter - http://www.twitter.com/kenuty ►Twitch... ","hours":24.1,"funny_percent":0.029801324503311258,"helpful_percent":0.8410596026490066}
{"review":"Like many, I got this simply for the Remaster, and not for the Infinite Warfare. After spending a game in the Multiplayer and in Zombies, I can safely say this is Call of Duty. If you're a FAN, then that is absolutely fine, there is a decently sized content package here for you. I, however, have been playing Titanfall 2 over the last few days and the transition is crazy. This game feels much more sluggish than Titanfall 2, which is weird because they try to go for the same fluid gameplay.  The actual content itself is just a bore too. If you're a CoD fan, go for it. If not, man just don't bother, it's not worth the gamble with the price.  Hate inc probably too...  EDIT: In addition it is likely worth noting that on the game's LAUNCH NIGHT on PC, there are only around 3,000 people playing Infinite Warfare. I wouldn't bank on this lasting until new year to be honest.  EDIT2: I was asked to include my opinion on the reason I bought the game; the Remaster. Unfortunately, I don't feel this game has aged very well, with the gameplay feeling very basic in comparison to modern shooters. In particular, the cursed 'npc open doors for you' campaign gameplay where your hand is constantly held just isn't enjoyable, which is a shame because I have such fond memories of the campaign.  EDIT3: Many moons later, hey look, I was right. SWBattlefront has more players on a daily basis, yeah, seriously.","hours":5,"funny_percent":0.037238169123351435,"helpful_percent":0.7591155934833204}
{"review":"Dont Buy. Its Not Worth It.  Preordered it and got Modern Warfare Remastered after a hearing news that games would have dedicated servers. Their Dev's Legal FAQ's were nothing but lies. If anybody is thinking that Call of duty can be saved, News flash. It aint worth saving or putting money on. Many people were mislead by false advertisments and \"bait and switch\" methods by Infinity Ward and Ravensoft. The multiplayer for both games were completely broken from the start. The Devs refused to fix the major problems that PC players and their communities were having. I had to report to steam about the misleading conducts to get a store credit refund and steam was nice to refund me all what i spent on this game and Im glad i dont have it anymore.   Problems with both games:  No Server Browser System: This a major component that this game is missing and is in bad need of. Matchmaking systems are a big hate for PC. Without the server browser and its Ranked and Unranked Server abilities, players are spending most of their play time waiting for over 30 minutes at times or so searching just to play a game on this matchmaker system. When the game's playerbase is too low like IW and COD MWR, matchmaker just dont work and it has shown those case of problems because of it.  No Genuine Dedicated servers: Another Critical component in the PC play system that is missing. Without these dedicated servers, players cant play somewhere closer to their locations and enjoy a more lag-free fun \"Call of Duty Experience\". The system they are using for these games now are sadly 100% unreliable and are very unfriendly with the PC.   Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered was post to have dedicated servers and all system components that it had back in COD4 but sadly in their FAQ, it was a lie.   Call of Duty: Modern Warfare Remastered Problems: It does not play like the original. The Guns, Movements, the Graphics and all other things etc just wasnt anywhere close to what it was back in the original COD4. It was extremely Clunky. Frame rate stuttering was very bad. a GTX780 ROG handled it no problem but the game itself was having issues even with 1080 cards in some cases. I was able to run everyting at MAX HD and it worked just fine but when it came to Multiplayer modes for both games, it was having major problems.   In all honesty: If I was a person who can say an ugly truth about how much is this game COD IW and COD MWR is really worth, you wouldnt like what i wouldve said. This game combined with MWR is really worth 30$ at best. There is a reason for saying this. Without the stuff i mentioned above, The games are sadly incomplete. The only thing that these 2 games have are working single player modes and the multiplayer for both are not even close to being completed to boot.  If i was in charge of steam in terms of how much this game needs to be sold for, i wouldve put 30$ only, no additional cost for COD MWR. But thats just my opinion.   This game gets a 2 of 10. I rarely write bad reviews but this game and COD MWR has earned itself a name in the \"hall of shame\" in the industry of game development.","hours":9.2,"funny_percent":0.02867383512544803,"helpful_percent":0.8351254480286738}
{"review":"Titanfall 2 does it better, get it instead.","hours":1.1,"funny_percent":0.042042042042042045,"helpful_percent":0.8078078078078078}
{"review":"This was waste of money to be honest, i regret buying it i'll stick to Black ops 3, wait i got a joke for yall Why is CoD: Infinite Warfare set in space?   Because no one on earth wants to buy it.","hours":4.2,"funny_percent":3.709251101321586,"helpful_percent":0.8325991189427313}
{"review":"Battlefield Won...  There are a lot of problems with COD infinite warfare... however It's not the worst game in existence like a lot of people are making it out to be, and I don't think it is either, but it's just... not a good game, compared to BF1, TF2, and the older CoD's it's not worth your hard earned money over BF1 or TF2, if you have both BF1 and TF2 and are not excited for any other games coming out this year OR next year, go ahead, it's your money not mine :)  Onto the reasons I do not like the game, let's see here, oh, just about everything, but the Campaign...  CAMPAIGN - Good voice acting - Great animations, as always. - Story is linear, yes, but what do you expect from a CoD? - Story is somewhat decent, better than BO3 and Ghosts, but I liked Advanced Warfare a lot more. - Michael BAAAA-*KABOOM*  MULTIPLAYER - Terrible amount of health, I didn't like Black Ops 3 multiplayer but I would rather play that then this. - Clunky movement - Guns that feel like they are for noobs, guns that shoot in a wide spray, miniguns, invisibility(though not as big of a complaint, can see it really easily.) - Even lower K/D time. - Dead On Arrival DOA on PC, remember this is a PC review, not an XONE or PS4 review. - No matches other then TDM unless it's the extremely popular time of day.  ZOMBIES, I can't judge this one to it's full extent, you can really only judge a zombies mode or game once all of the DLC have released, but these are my current thoughts.  - The zombies feel like they have more health... or just something feels off, it's like I am not damaging them as much as it felt like I was in treyarch zombies, with their body parts falling off and normal gun sounds instead of LAZOR's. (exageration on the lazor's, even the normal gun sounds feel like I am not damaging them.) - The 1980's theme works with the LAZOR's but I feel like they should've kept it original with WW1 / WW2 theme from treyarch. - The afterlife mode in co-op is very cool in my personal opinion... neat idea to let the players keep playing the game instead of spectating, very well done infinity ward. - There are a few new perks, like banana cola-I mean Trailer Blazers, and Slappy Taffy and Quickies... very fun perks to play with! - Story for the zombies mode a lot of people don't like but i think it's actually pretty cool. - Much harder then BO3, which was insanely easy... I love the difficulty, especially no perkaholics, YESSSSSS. - No Monkeys (actual monkeys) - No MP40  _____________________________________________________________  Here's the thing, if you are looking for a good casual game, then get Titanfall 2, it's campaign is the best campaign I have played on PC since Half Life 2, and the best campaign I have played since Halo 3 on Xbox 360... Halo 3 being my favorite campaign of all time with Half Life 2 being right below that then Titanfall 2.  The multiplayer for Titanfall 2 isn't hyped up for some reason, but, It is the MOST fun I have had since 2012... all the future DLC is completely free, all the skins are earned, no microtransactions.  So, if you are looking for a more serious game, get Battlefield 1, if you are looking for a game almost as casual as Call of Duty get Titanfall 2, if you want a co-op mode get Killing Floor 2, if you are looking for a super duper omega supreme serious game get Arma 3 or SQUAD, they require insane amounts of coordination... to the point that I don't like them too much, PERSONAL opinion, they are good games for people who like those games.  Now I really, REALLY believed in this game, not since BO2 have I been this hyped for a CoD, I have what, 299 or so hours on BO3... so please don't go saying that I am a BF or TF fanboy :-/  If you are into CoD simply SIMPLY for the campaign, then this is a must have CoD, but if you are looking at the WHOLE package like I am (Campaign, Multiplayer, Zombies) this is NOT the game for you... especially with the multiplayer... I would highly recommend getting Titanfall 2 for the campaign it has though... and the multiplayer, and the free content and, okay, you understand.  TL;DR  Get Titanfall 2 if you want a casual experience like CoD, fast paced fun amazingness  Get Battlefield 1 if you want a more serious (not serious, just more serious) campaign / multiplayer.  Get Killing Floor 2 if you want a game that you purely want for co-op.  Get Arma 3 or SQUAD if you want extremely serious coordination based games.  Get Infinite Warfare if you want to waste your money on a decent campaign, a terrible multiplayer, and a sad zombies mode.  Now, I am going to edit this review once the game gets patched, and the DLC comes out... RIGHT now I am gonna, go back to playing Titanfall 2 or BO3 or BF1 or something like that.... yeahhhhhhh","hours":166.3,"funny_percent":0.03531438415159346,"helpful_percent":0.7545219638242894}
{"review":"TL:DR: If you want more information please read below this section.  Campaign Short as hell and has no replay value though it is a lot of fun.  Zombies Tons of fun, rivals previous games. Definately the best part of Infinite Warfare.  Multiplayer Really buggy, improves on a few things but still can't compete with Black Ops 3 in terms of fluid gameplay and overall quality.  Recomendation I can't endorse this.  THE FULL REVIEW:  Campaign: In this campaign you play as Nick Reyes, a pilot who, after an attack on Earth, becomes captain of the Retribution. While fighting the SDF (Settlement Defense Front) the former captain of the Retribution call an order to ram the Olympus Mons (The largest battle class warship ever built) and force them to retreat. After this happens Reyes gets promoted when the captain is found dead.   The overall story has a good feel to it and really gets the player pumped up to take the fight to the SDF. The characters all have very good voice acting and have personality that helps immersion. Unfortunately there are some drawbacks to this game's singleplayer experience, first let's talk about the good things.  During this campaign you will be flying a ship called a Jackel. Basically this thing is a space faring fighter jet. Customization for this thing is pretty nice, there are 4 slots you can change on it, the Paintjob, Gatling Cannon, Heavy Weapon, Special Equipment. Unfortunately, because you never use the Jackel anywhere but in singleplayer, the paintjob is virtually useless and has no point unless you plan on doing multiple playthroughs. Flying the Jackel is quite easy and takes place in open space, no rails attached. The only time rails are attached is when you enter dogfighting mode when locking onto an enemy ship. The dogfighting here uses the same system as in Ace Combat: Assault Horizon so fans of that game needn't worry about learning anything new.  This campaign is the first time in a long time that a CoD has no collectable intel. Somewhat disappointing since these things allowed us access to more of the backstory behind the campaign. They did however replace this with weapon scans, this is essentially the exact same thing as weapon collecting in Battlefield 4.  Unfortunately, Infinity Ward did not get the memo that co-op is back in Black Ops 3. While it isn't a dealbreaker, it is disappointing as co-op does add a fair amount of replay value. Not to mention there is nothing to unlock for multiplayer through the campaign, whereas Black Ops 3 had weapon skins and player calling cards for unlock in Zombies and Multiplayer, Infinite Warfare does not.  Zombies: This mode has a lot to offer compared to other games. First lets go over individual aspects...  The gameplay is fluid, very nice and there are tons of things to do here. Now I haven't gotten very far, maybe 4/5 power switches but I've explored quite a bit. Firstly the traps are rather funny, between bumper cars running down zombies and a giant dragon head roasting them behind you as you escape through its throat it never gets dull.  Weapon customization has made a return in this title and it's a very welcome return. With this you can change how weapons appear when you buy them off of a wall or through the magic wheel. Honestly, I love tossing a laser sight on my shottys with either an extended range or stopping power attachment. (The only reason I don't mention specific attachment names is because there are 2 seperate sets of attachments for ballistic and energy weapons.)  The supply drops in this game are the same as Black Ops 3 with a catch. Instead of liquid divinium the player uses keys. These keys are used to open both Zombie Crates and Multiplayer Supply Drops. In order to balance this out, Zombie crates do not differ from multiplayer crates much, you get 2 drops that would normally appear in supply drops plus a Fate & Fortune card pack (F&F Cards are the same as gobblegum.) which itself drops 3 cards.   Weapon variants actually do have a use in zombies. Let me give an example, the Nuke perk in multiplayer give players a game ending nuke strike after a 25 killstreak with that weapon. In zombies however, this same perk turns into a nuke powerup after every 150 zombie kills with said weapon. So each perk has 2 different effects between PVP and PVE.  Multiplayer: This is where the game is lacking pretty badly, which is pretty sad to say when it comes to a Call of Duty game. The movement while essentially the same as Black Ops 3, is badly implemented and buggy. For example, in Black Ops 3 wallrunning is very fluid and very rarely fails to work, this also applies to the mantling of edges. Unfortunately this is not so in Infinite Warfare, in IW wwallrunning does not like to toggle itself without heavy assistance from the user which results in the death of those who have grown accustomed to the fluid motion of the previous game.  Hitboxes have been improved, headshots are headshots and not bodyshots as in Black Ops 3. However this game appears to have changed the mechanics for aiming enough to make you have to fix your sensitivity throughout several matches before being able to play effectively. This isn't a huge issues as it happenes with almost all FPS games.  The maps feel very claustraphobic. Wheras they did try to stick to a 3 lane layout, they made many of these lanes far too narrow which creates a bottleneck and inhibits the ability to traverse the map. This creates a pretty bad stalemate when it comes to objective based game modes as Site B becomes an all out warzone while the 2 outer lanes are camped pretty heavily by snipers or LMGs. It all boils down to your team in the end but in my oppinion, the bottlenecking is counterproductive.  User Interface and Menu Screens: This was my largest dissappointment with the game for 2 reasons alone.  1.) No community hub. Treyarch, in my oppinion, set the standard for quality with Black Ops 3 in this aspect. They incorperated a full community hub into the main menu that allowed us to see what all of our friends were up to. Along with this we could view other player's soldiers and their CoD career screen which gave tons of detailed info on the player. This was a very useful feature that many of us used and still use.  2.) Oversimplified. Treyarch again created a very useful menu system with many features and options. Infinity Ward however chose to go with the simple route. There are only 4 options in the main menu with absolutely nothing else. Single Player, Multiplayer, Zombies and Quit Game. Sometimes the simple menu is a good way to go, but in my oppinion they took it to the extreme and omitted many features that would have made it an overall better experience.  Now 2 more things I'm going to mention here before I stop this review.  There is no Splitscreen that I've seen, I plugged in 2 controllers and no option appeared. This was dissappointing since I enjoy playing splitscreen Zombies and Multiplayer with bots with my roomate.  Zombies has a small problem with people Idling for Keys. (Same as Cryptokeys from Black Ops 3) As a result these player make the zombies experience annoying. It doesn't make me want to quit, it's just annoying as hell when they join and do nothing but idle while the rest of us are racking up the kills.  Conclusion: Now my recomendation is pretty mixed. But I'm going to have to give this game a thumbs down, I bought it knowing what I was getting myself into and I do not regret it. But I can't in all good conciousness recomend this game for the simple fact that everything but the Zombies felt half♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ I'm sorry to say that iff Sledgehammer manages to put out a turd after Infinite Warfare I'm going to have to favor Treyarch as they seem to actually give a damn about their PC fanbase.","hours":103.3,"funny_percent":0.026923076923076925,"helpful_percent":0.8192307692307692}
{"review":"Enjoyable multiplayer game which sadly has no anti-cheat or atleast one that works.  i reached level 20 in multplayer and encountered atleast 10 people using what looks  like aimbot when reviewing the kil cam they flick from head to head using 360 turns getting 40+ kills and no deaths in a TDM.  inifnity ward should have folded when the top devs left for respawn entertainment.  i will still play the game it just leaves a sour taste when every other game you join has hackers.  kaos","hours":9.4,"funny_percent":0.02857142857142857,"helpful_percent":0.8285714285714286}
{"review":"single player is actually pretty good  multiplayer i do not like the jump pack (and movment as a whole) feels janky and horrible and the time to kill is far too low  i have came across a few hackers as well  if it is on sale buy the base game as the single player is actually ok don't bother too much with the multiplayer","hours":17.9,"funny_percent":0.054474708171206226,"helpful_percent":0.8210116731517509}
{"review":"REVIEW IW: Campaign 5/10, Zombies 8/10, Multiplayer 5/10 MW: Campaign 9/10, Multiplayer 3/10 (I explain why below)   Modern warfare got me into FPS's and was an amazing game. However when you can only find TDM and S&D servers it gets annoying. About 1,800 people on average play infinite warfare multiplayer or zombies at a given time and about 444 people on average play modern warfare remastered multiplayer at any given time.\t To put this into perspective (All numbers are averages per day): 708 play Counter Strike Condition Zero a day (A game from 2004) 1,653 playCall of Duty Modern Warfare 2 Multiplayer a day (A game from 2009) 3,619 play Call of Duty Black Ops 3 Multiplayer a day (2015) 628 play Call of Duty Black Ops Multiplayer a day (2010) 560 play Mafia 2 a day (2010) 635 play Star Wars Battlefront 2 a day (2005 and there aren't even any dedicated online servers) And so fourth. If you're buying this for muliplayer be prepared to play either S&D or TDM because besides that you won't find a lobby. It is so sad because this game was a huge part of my childhood and even though the campaign is amazing mulitplayer is about 75% of the game. It's sad what they did to this game and I hope they sell MW Remastered as a stand alone because more people need to play.   Why can't we download each individual asset to the game individually like virtually every past call of duty? THE DAMN GAME IS 101 GB. I don't want multiplayer nor campaign, I just want zombies but these idiots refuse to do the moral and logical thing and make you download their entire ♥♥♥♥♥♥ game.  LASTLY, This is the last straw, the Devs are selling FOUR MAPS, emphasize on selling, that came with the origonal game. This is absolutely disgusting and how you lose your fan base. I have no idea who their marketing and financial teams are or whoever sets prices but they need fired ASAP this is disgusting.   ","hours":19.7,"funny_percent":0.03888888888888889,"helpful_percent":0.7916666666666666}
{"review":"Singleplayer: Pro: - Nice graphics - More or less, free mission choice (including side-missions) - Better story than in previous Cod's - Nice \"new\" aircraft feature  Con: - Same linear Level-Design as always - Short story - Even on \"Veteran\" no big Challenge  Multiplayer: Pro: -\"New\" maps, levels, weapons - crafting your own weapons (even if this is not a big game changer) Con: - FPS-lock at 90  - Bad movement-system - No big changes to BO3/AW - No well balanced weapons - No Server-Browser (yeah, ok it has been removed a long time ago from CoD, but it is a con anyways.)  Zombies: (first up, this is the only mode that actually makes a whole lot of fun if you are playing with your friends or even strangers, thats why I played it most of the time I spend in this game.) Pro: - Very creative designed - Nice Easter-Eggs - Good Map (Zombies in Spaceland) - Nice Backstory  - David Hasselhoff (he is OP!) - Easy to reach high rounds even solo - New features  Con: - Only one Map (without Season-Pass) - No big improvements (maybe that's good..?)  _________________________________ My Opinion: Infinity Ward tried to rescue a game that was already hated even before they released it and they did their job not that bad. Of course there are still performance problems, there are still Supply-Drops (this time with even more P2W) and many other issues. But you get MWR with it (even if we all played it at least once...), they did a good job with the Zombies. I defenitley can't recommend IW+MWR for a price of 79,99€/$, if you are a real fan of future settings, there are other games that make their job way better.  The zombie mode is the only real good thing in this game (the Multiplayer is ok as well...), but for the full price it's not worth it.  (Sorry for my english, I'm from Germany/Poland, but I just thought everyone can read english and maybe it helps ^^)","hours":114.6,"funny_percent":0.034782608695652174,"helpful_percent":0.8217391304347826}
{"review":"A lot of really talented people have wasted a great deal of time creating this shiny pile of garbage, don't get me wrong the graphics are nice and the game runs like a charm I'm not complaining about that, the artists did a good job and it's very well optimised!  The story however is just garbage, the bad guys are just that, bad guys. With no depth to them whatsoever, just boring evil people who want to destroy you because you exist, they make this painstakingly obvious too because within the first hour of the game I heard the line \"Oh no they are killing civilians!\" at least 7 times, a few hours into the campaign I found myself staring at the screen with a blank expression on my face not sure if I even wanted to finish it, the story completely fails to draw you in.  The two main companions Salter and Ethan (Also known as sarcasmbot) might as well be the only good thing the story has to offer, Salter because she is a good non-sexualised female companion that actually didn't get on my nerves and Ethan because he likes to crack jokes where every other character just gives you a non stop barrage of dumb military talk (We are Oscar Mike! Yeah ♥♥♥♥ you too buddy!)  Everything and I mean EVERYTHING is scripted, stand still for 3 seconds? Some ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ is gonna start nagging you repeating the same line over and over untill you go do your objective! If the game sais you have to sneak it all goes to♥♥♥♥♥♥when you don't, or the prisoner chase scene that completely breaks when you ignore the enemies and actually chase the guy, I found myself punching him in his invincible face as he refused to follow his path forcing me to load the previous checkpoint.  The guns are just sad, they took guns from the previous games and slapped some futuristic garbage on them, Vector with an extra mag? Check! M4 with a slightly different look? Check! How about an Ak47 or a Glock with a battery? Check! Check! Check! Not too creative folks...  Here's hoping they wont ♥♥♥♥ up Cod WW2 but after this ♥♥♥♥♥tain of a game I'm not getting my hopes up, 15 bucks well wasted!","hours":7.3,"funny_percent":0.0593607305936073,"helpful_percent":0.821917808219178}
{"review":"Video Review:    YouTube™ Video: Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare - PC Review  Views: 35,231 Idiotech provides an in-depth review of the Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare for PC. Green Man Gaming - Affiliate Link: https://goo.gl/7eShmc Patreon: https://www.patreon.com/IdiotechGaming Social...   Summary:   It's bog standard when it comes to MP and Zombies. The singleplayer campaign is the only element of the game that attempts new things. It's a fun romp through the solar system but the gameplay leaves a lot to be desired. I would give this one a miss.","hours":17.5,"funny_percent":0.014388489208633094,"helpful_percent":0.7913669064748201}
{"review":"Product received for free  Day one. Hackers, godmode, faulty matchmaking. Cant even play zombies right!","hours":21.1,"funny_percent":0.0547112462006079,"helpful_percent":0.7750759878419453}
{"review":"I have withnessed the horrors and tragedies of the infinite loading screen..","hours":0.8,"funny_percent":0.7663043478260869,"helpful_percent":0.7355072463768116}
{"review":"Game is a load of fecal matter, don't buy.","hours":4.8,"funny_percent":0.0782122905027933,"helpful_percent":0.7541899441340782}
{"review":"I had to disable every other one of my displays for this to actually work. it wouldn't lock onto my main monitor otherwise.  It also gave server errors about thirty times when loading into games, and then during games. which i guess is okay because its a new launch.   campaign could be cool, i didn't play it, but the multiplayer I just didn't like at all.  the remaster is alright. it's not worth spending 79.99 though, in my opinion.  IW itself just doesn't feel fun. I just don't like it. I figured i'd give it a chance because \"how bad could it be?\" but the jump pack, the guns, the maps, I just didn't have fun with any of it.   Personally, I'd recommend Titanfall 2. 59.99 and all the DLC is free. no season pass. and no stupid weapon crates.","hours":16.9,"funny_percent":0.022222222222222223,"helpful_percent":0.7322222222222222}
{"review":"I have over 200 hrs playing this game  Simply the worst game I've ever played. I own every COD from United Offensive to IW. I will never spend one more dime on the franchise. This game was not ready for release and seems to get worse with every update. Multiplayer is useless. Campain is \"pretty\" but if i wanted to watch a movie I would have rented one. I also got COD MW Remastered. I don't think they know what the word \"remastered\" means. It is horrible. The original COD 4 is better than both of these games by far. Don't waste your money. Unless you like LAG Compensation. That is where Activision gets compesated for us Lagging.","hours":510.8,"funny_percent":0.1415525114155251,"helpful_percent":0.7328767123287672}
{"review":"this game inspired me to play other games   mehh/10","hours":35,"funny_percent":0.8661417322834646,"helpful_percent":0.7677165354330708}
{"review":"Okey, so i went into this game with an open mind, i did not care about all the negativity surounding it before release. I payed 79.99 euro. Let me tell ya, it really sucks. The movement is so strange and funky, the guns feel heavy/clunky/bloated. The maps in multiplayer? Dont even get me started. The graphics? Terrible. The interface/UI? Crappy. EVERYTHING ABOUT THIS IS♥♥♥♥♥♥ Save your money folks! If you really need a newer COD then go with Call of duty Black Ops3 instead. You can tell a game is♥♥♥♥♥♥when 180 minutes is all it takes to make an review.   Oh, couple of more things! its sooooo bad optimized on pc, it dosent matter if you have a good pc it will run bad. Also the connection to servers sucks, dropping of host and more. You can go on for ages about all thats bad in this game, nothing is good. This feels like a REALL REALLY REALLY bad Unreal Tournament clone, COD is dead if not Treyarch can save the series with a new game, but i doubt it.  However the Bundle contains Modern Warfare Remastered. Its pretty decent and feels like the old MW game but with Upped graphics, camos, weapons stickers, and 10 multiplayer maps. There is some Graphical Optimization issues as we speak which makes the game laggy, and stuttering. Hopefully a patch will be released fixing this.  EDIT: Same Optimization issues with MWR, i mainly bought IW for MWR, but it is unplayable as we speak. Alot of stuttering and other graphichal issues. Dont belive me? Just join a TDM in MWR and everyone will speak about this problems in say:  EDIT2: Lowering shadows and/or turning them off in MWR Options makes the game somewhat smoother to play.  My Gaming-rig:  Asus STRIX GTX 960 DirectCU II 4 GB, Intel Core i5 4460 3,2GHz, Corsair Vengeance 32 GB DDR3 1600Mhz, Samsung 850 EVO 256 GB SSD","hours":251.6,"funny_percent":0.046132008516678494,"helpful_percent":0.7040454222853088}
{"review":"Q: Why did you dislike the game even though you've played for 100+ hours? A: The game was decent and ran fine up until a few months after the release, then all of a sudden after an update, it ran very poorly. Major FPS dips and stuttering made the game unplayable even in Solo Zombies and Campaign. 100 or so hours of playtime occured before this happened.  Im really dissapointed to be honest. I was hyped up for this game. Dont get me wrong, its a good game, a really good game. But it is absolutely trash on PC. I wish I bought a console just for this game. COD is a dead series to play on PC. Let me get started...   4 months after the game came out, there is less than 1000 average players, the number probably being lower for MP, and they all mostly play TDM, good luck finding any other game mode to play. THE HACKERS. Oh lord the hackers. Atleast 1 out of every 3 lobbies I play has some guy with an obvious aim bot or wall hacks. And this game has no VAC what so ever lmao....   THE HORRIBLE OPTIMIZATION. I dont get it. The first month this game was out, it was smooth as can be. Now I constantly get framedrops and stuttering and lag even in SOLO ZOMBIES!!! I turn my graphics all the way down, doesnt fix anything. It will be a solid 60fps and then randomly dip way down. Most of the time in a firefight in MP causing me to get killed, or in Zombies at a crucial moment. The PC port of this game is just complete trash. I wish I never spent the $100 for the digital deluxe edition.   I love the game, dont get me wrong. The Campaign is a masterpiece, the new direction for Zombies is genius, and the setting of a future war in space is awesome. Everytime im on the MP Map \"Frost\" I spend alot of time just staring up at Jupiter from the surface of Europa and it really puts me in the moment. But the PC version is just absolutely terrible. I honestly wish I bought a Console to have some longevity, less hackers, a smoother experience and a more casual game to play.   Oh, and MWR has the same exact stuttering problem. Making that game just as unplayable. So it really was a waste of $100. And these problems happened a month after I had the game. So no chance of me refunding it.  UPDATE 4/3/2017-  Ok, tried playing last week after the DLC came out not too long ago, The game runs alot smoother, less stuttering (Only played Zombies and private match in MP)   Rave in the Redwoods- Has alittle bit of a learning curve to it, being much different than ZiS. Fun to play, easy to train and a nice setting. Classic zombies experience.  The new MP maps? Couldnt tell you, couldnt even find a match online in TDM. Took 20 mins, transferred hosts 3 times and the game wouldnt even start the match when I found a lobby.  The New Weapons- I really appreciate how Season Pass holders get immediate access to the new guns. Its a nice change from the \"Pay to Get the Cool Guns\" Lottery that was the Black Market in Blops3. The weapons fit in nicely and arent too overpowered from what I saw in Private Matches.   The Player Count? IDK. I stopped checking the stats to see how many players were online. You have to remember that counts EVERYONE playing the game. Whether they are playing Campaign, Zombies or MP. I assume most players are playing Zombies, alone or with their friends. Because whenever I tried to play MP it would always be the same lobby or couldnt find a lobby at all.   ALSO, I still havent bought a console, and I dont intend on it. Being a hardworking individual who balances work, relationships, friendships, physical fitness and my own free time, I dont have time to play games as much as I used to.   Maybe you should free up some of your gaming time to do some of those things too? (I'm looking at you, yes you, the guy with 98 hours in the past 2 weeks played.)  You know, go outside, get some sun, go for a walk, meet some people, maybe find a girlfriend or even a boyfriend if thats what your into. (Lets be honest, women dont exist in the Steam community.)   I gaurentee this game wont make your life better, but maybe those I listed above will? Who knows.   (The Above article is my OPINION. It is not fact, google opinion before you get triggered and get arthritis for going full keyboard warrior on \"console vs pc\" or how my review is terrible. It is my OPINION.)","hours":128.4,"funny_percent":0.039634146341463415,"helpful_percent":0.7469512195121951}
{"review":"Press F to Pay Respects.  Call of Duty is DEAD.  R.I.P.","hours":93.6,"funny_percent":0.2857142857142857,"helpful_percent":0.7142857142857143}
{"review":"Refund Review: the point of a review such as this is to base it pretty much within the timeframe in which you can succesfully apply for a refund. (+- 2 hrs.) it is therefore mostly based on first impressions.  I went in IW unbiased, i didn't jump on either the hate or the hype train, but since BO I This felt like a COD I might pick up. I like space, i like guns, i like guns in space and soforth, so I was, although a bit skeptical, ready to die, die and die again and again. The last first person thing I played was either Rust or Deus Ex MD, so naturally my aim was a little rusty and because i didn't pick up any COD for the last couple of years, i was completely new to the revamped movement. So if you're like me, a casual FPS'er who's still doubting, this review might be for you. Because nobody buys COD for the campaign, i hadn't touched on any of the single player elements.  Tl; DR:  The Good: -Shooting is tight and feels gratifying -Movement is fun and allows for some interesting manouvers -Time-to-Action barely exists -It's just more COD, the playstyle is still the same -Short but sweet matches make you come back for more -In my experience the game ran pretty good, and my framerate never seemed to drop below 50  The Bad - Map designs could've been a lot more varied - Balancing seems quite a bit off - Verticality seems as if it's mostly a gimmick - Space setting seems greatly underused.  Also -Graphics are okay, my rig runs a GTX 965m, between normal-high settings so keep that in mind. -Matchmaking can sometimes be a bit slow -The Stereotypical, whiny COD players are most definitely still around  DO I RECOMMEND THIS GAME:  No, I am getting a refund.  IW is by no means a bad game, it just feels a bit unpolished in general, however, it IS triple A/ Holiday-season and I strongly believe you can spend your 60 bucks on a better game, I know I am. It's just more COD, so this'll scratch some people's itches, but it doesn't scratch mine. However, you can always try for yourself.    Right off the bat, it feels as if this is a COD where having a higher level gives you a significant advantage over new players. Not just because of map knowledge and adjustment to the movement system, but because there are certain upgrades, that i of course wasn't able to reach within my two-hour game span, that felt overpowering to me. Upgrades, weapons and attachments that made it seem as if the opponent's weapon was just way more powerful than mine, it takes probably less that a second to get killed. And you'll get killed alot. I tried some of the weapons, and I suggest picking up the ERAD first, a standard energy-weapon SMG that has a high ROF, which seems to matter the most. I often felt that in a situation in which I had superior aim, I got killed because the enemy's gun fires things faster than mine.   Friends and foes are diversified by their RIGS, an activision word for classes, but that variation quickly lost its glamour once you notice that most players gravitate towards the robot, because it has an ability that gives it two hip-fire guns that kill you almost instantly. I didn't have much time with many of the rigs, or the game, so this is definitely an observation by availability.  I feel that the maps are what's most lacking in this game. Every map, besides Frost, which i did quite like, feels like a different arrangement of small nooks and corridors within industrial-esque rooms, most of which were unused because players seemed to only use certain pathways. I felt as if these were maps in which they tried to encourage tactical play, but because COD players play the way they do, this is often neglected, and this just made the maps seem similar. The Space setting could have served for some really interesting map desing, like zero-G for example, but besides the Nolan-esque portrayal of a black hole neatly placed in the skybox, this feels like a missed opportunity. Space ships are like the factories on the ground, way too similar. The focus on CQC makes Sniper rifles feel more obsolete than ever, with no real 'sniper spots' or lanes, and standing still often meant dying.   Verticality and movement seems to be tacked on as well. Ledges that were easily within reach of my boost-jump were ungrabable and wall-run sections seemed like 'insert wall-run bit here', but if an enemy was at the beginning or the end of such a section, you're pretty much dead. However, boost jumping IS a lot of fun, and i've seen players use it to their advantage. Once you're adjusted to aiming from the air, and those sorts of things, you can outmanouvre an enemy quite skillfully, as you confuse them with your unpredictable movement. These were the moments that i didn't feel bad dying, because it was obvious that they just had more skill than I did.   But, COD is still COD. Despite sounding negative, shooting is still as tight as ever and feels gratifying. Just barely surviving an encounter, even if it does only last a second, feels great and the Time-to-Action is almost non-existent. You're dead, and a second later you're sliding or boost-jumping to your death again. I didn't encouter any game breaking bugs, I had one bad case of rubberbanding and sometimes you'd have to wait a minute to get into a game. Matches were over in a blink and i always stayed in the lobby for more. I think that this is as arcade-y as COD will get, and i think that activision will publish a more arcade-y one next year.","hours":1.7,"funny_percent":0.0398936170212766,"helpful_percent":0.7393617021276596}
{"review":"Product received for free  No sound what-so-ever (Menu, voice, guns, everything has no sound for me), the textures are p*ss poor-awful even on high (It HAS to be a glitch, the resolution on the textures are so f**king bad that you can't even make out what half of it is, not to mention that they slowly get worse over time. And my rig is a monster, so there's no way in hell it's my computer.) A plethora of day-one bugs across everyone who's playing (Minus the select lucky few). As for the textures, I have no clue what's going on there. They start off fine and literally 5 minutes later drop tremendously in resolution, it's as if the game's texture pop in is just natively broken.  Singleplayer won't even start, and to be honest I'm not missing much since there's no sound. At all. For anything. ANYTHING. So I decided to blast SNAKE EATER on repeat while I tried out multiplayer.  Gun designs look stupid and nonfunctional, it seriously just looks like whoever was the concept design for them said \"Hey wires and way more bulky sh*t, that'll make it look sci-fi, right?\" ( https://puu.sh/s6NvH/7396bc2fcb.png ). Not to mention the absolute nonsensical and stupid as all hell decision to take old MW/MW2 guns and slap stupid looking attachments while blatantly still being an \"classic\" model with stupid stuff attached to it (M1 Garand in the future? Are you serious right now?). Copy/pasting (Steam for some reason blocked this sentence out. Here's a filler) of assets are blatantly obvious when looking at the meshwork of firearms. The amount of content in the multiplayer isn't promising either. Oh yeah, it's also pretty much dead off the gate. Remember in Halo 2 when you could click a button and find a match? Yeah, those days are long gone. Get ready to do some mental excersizes for 15 minutes while you wait to shoot at people for 10.   Oh yeah, there's also Overwatch Ults for each character. Joy.   I can't suggest this game now. Maybe after they do some patches to make the game actually playable. But until then, go back to whatever other game you want to play. You're not missing out on anything here. I rarely write reviews like this, and despite me getting the game for free this is the FIRST game I have ever played where I just had no desire to continue playing it after the first 30 minutes.   Fix your sh*t, get a competent PC-Porting team please.  P.S - For all of those saying that I can't complain about a game's release and day 1 bugs. You clearly haven't been around playing the great games from the 2000's. Which delivered solid and polished games on release date with hardly any issues.  It's the current year. It's unacceptable at this point to still be paying full price for a game that does not work on launch.  P.S.S - I don't care that much about the old guns in IW. It's just, when you're creating something as vast and as big as a galaxy to run around in. You think they'd put more effort into creating brand new and exciting firearms than taking ones we've seen a billion times and adding♥♥♥♥♥♥to it.  P.S.S.S - Jeeze so many additions, for anyone thinking this is BF1 Bias. I don't even have EA's ♥♥♥♥♥♥ origin installed. Out of all the \"Hype\" games (Ergo, titanfall, bf1, cod IW), COD IW is the only one I've played. I haven't touched Titanfall 2 (Nor care) or BF1 (Nor care.). Just sayin'.  https://puu.sh/s76id/a1405b38f7.png","hours":0.8,"funny_percent":0.04310344827586207,"helpful_percent":0.7019704433497537}
{"review":"I pre-ordered this game after not having played a CoD games since Black Ops. I also was greaty looking forward to MW: Remastered.   MW: Remastered will be a great product when it comes out one day as a stand-alone purchase. The game actually looks better than Infinite Warfare and the guns and gameply are better.  IW: A complete was of 60 USD. The story was decent in the first hour and a half, but the gameplay is so underwhelming, it would have been best left to a movie instead. The graphics, maxed out on a 980 look like something from 2011. The guns are bland, lack a sense of feel and all seem virtually the same. The multiplayer experience is visually plain and suffers from all the problems found in singleplayer. Oh, and if your friend(s) bought the game in the Windows 10 store, they cannot play with anyone who bougth the game on Steam, or the Xbone!  I am getting a refund and trying BF1 or Titanfall 2.","hours":1.3,"funny_percent":0.017241379310344827,"helpful_percent":0.7931034482758621}
{"review":"Tried for 6 hours on release to get on multiplayer, campain is slow and unoriginal. Just more Sci-Fi but honestly feels like every other COD.  Wouldn't recommend. Dissapointing to have to spent 60.00pound just for Modern Warefare Remastered tbh.   Fun fact: Truck Simulator has more consistant players and peak players than on release date of IW. That says alot about how the \"fan base\" feels about COD games now days.  tl;dr: don't buy unless on sale. don't feed into the moneygrabbing scheme of wanting you to pay 60.00 just for remastered MW give up on COD.  Needless to say, the optimization is horrendous. 1080x i7's struggle to get good FPS on single player unless on low settings.  EDIT: 6 hours is exaggeration I'm not ♥♥♥♥ing stupid. xD the 0.8 hours is full of disconnects and relaunching after being \"Game lobby closed\" everytime I launch Multiplayer. EDIT 2: I played campain on console. My review still stands. I dont need hours on steam to prove I played a ♥♥♥♥ing game.","hours":0.9,"funny_percent":0.04404145077720207,"helpful_percent":0.7305699481865285}
{"review":"No one is playing this game. I've tried for hours, and multiple times over the weeks to get a match with Zombies and I've only ever gotten 1 match in that entire time. Cod is dead. At least on pc. Unfortunately I was silly enough to give this game a chance and wait for the lobby's to popluate, which never happened. So now I'll be inelligible for a refund probably. This is just pathetic.  Update: Steam has refused my game refund request saying that I played it for too long. But it took hours of waiting to actually get into a game, I have played it under 2hrs but apparently steam includes sitting in a lobby waiting as gameplay. What a load.  On top of this their refusal to refund a faulty product is in violation of Australian citizens consumer protection law. Something in which the Australian government has just won a court case against steam for. Yet steam is still proceeding with violating Australian law. Real classy steam!","hours":13.1,"funny_percent":0.07718120805369127,"helpful_percent":0.7416107382550335}
{"review":"Review written during Multiplayer free weekend. (skip to the bottom for TL;DR)  I will begin by saying my very unpopular opinion: Infinite Warfare is actually a good game. But then, why can't I reccomend it? Hear me out:  General impressions  I can't really consider this a Call of Duty game, for obvious reasons. But I strongly believe that, if this was an original ip, then it wouldn't have received 80% of the hate it currently has.  The multiplayer formalities remained the same, basically. Just create a class with the weapons/perks/throwables you like and play with it. Of course there are still supply drops but I won't even start talking about that in this review. The gunplay and movement system are smooth, you can definitely see that they heavily improved on the futuristic formula of the game. The wall running, the jetpack, the sliding, it's all improved and as far as the controls go, nothing seemed clunky or unrefined (compared to the not-so-perfect movement systems of Black Ops 3 and Advanced Warfare).   The problems  Everything would be all well and good if not for the plethora of technical problems this game has. Where should I even begin? This game has everything, from disconnecting in the middle of the match, failing to get into a match in the first place, infinite loading screens (pun not intended) to freezes and even crashes. To get this out of the way, I am almost sure that the problems weren't on my end since I didn't experience this kind of stuff with the previous CoD games that I have played. Hell, I even upgraded my PC and ethernet since I last played Black Ops 3. The issue that frustrated me the most was the message \"Match started. Loading level...\" that I get every time matchmaking finds a game to join. From that message onwards it can go three ways:  I wait about 3-4 minutes and it finally gets me in-game; I wait for the same ammount of time or more and get a message that says I can't join the game; I wait forever and nothing happens until I decide to restart the game. There was also a fix to this that I tried, in which you had to make an exception for the game's .exe in your antivirus. Some people even suggested turning off the antivirus completely while playing (no thanks). Nonetheless, I got these results after performing the fix, because before the fix, it always went straight to option 3. Still, do you really think turning off your antivirus for a game is in order?  Another issue I encountered was the game freezing every single time I tried to alt-tab. Sometimes it even froze my whole desktop (keep in mind that while actually in-game I encountered no performance issues like fps drops or such whatsoever). The other problems I had besides these (and other minor bugs I didn't really pay attention to) were simply the matchmaking failing to get me into a match because \"A secure connection couldn't be established to the host.\". Well, maybe if I wouldn't have been required to make an exception in my antivirus to be able to play in the first place, the connection would have been secure, don't you think so, Infinity Ward???  Verdict  Maybe this game would be worth buying, if you find it at a sale for 20-25$ (its actual value imo), and if you are willing to go through tech support hell to play it. As I said before, this is not Call of Duty, but it is something surprisingly good (at least gameplay-wise), probably because I didn't go into it having high expectations. But even so, I can't reccomend it in the current state of the multiplayer. But hey, if you're just getting it for the story or zombies mode, then maybe it would be worth it? Let's be honest though, who plays CoD for the story, mates?  TL;DR: Not Call of Duty, but a game with really good gameplay. It's not worth it though, because of the technical issues it has that make the game almost unplayable in multiplayer.","hours":4.5,"funny_percent":0.038461538461538464,"helpful_percent":0.8153846153846154}
{"review":"Way too many hackers that openly flaunt their cheating because there is no policing. Some of the kill/death ratios are so high that even a moron at Activision should be able to figure it out. Activision should set up matches based on the kill/death ratio so all the hackers could play each other and let the rest of us enjoy the game.","hours":638.9,"funny_percent":0.038834951456310676,"helpful_percent":0.8446601941747572}
{"review":"12fps on a GTX 1080! Are you kidding me! Terrible port and dull looking game!! Don't waste your money this crap!!","hours":25.9,"funny_percent":0.13636363636363635,"helpful_percent":0.6978609625668449}
{"review":"It took me 5 minutes to find a lobby, 3 to get a feel for the mechanics and setting, and 1 to exit and refund.","hours":0.2,"funny_percent":0.7541528239202658,"helpful_percent":0.7275747508305648}
{"review":"If you want a game that runs bellow 60 fps and stutters throughout the course of the game this is the game for you. The game that won't even let you run the game in fullscreen mode for no apparent reason and because of that it locks about 30% of the options. So if this sounds like the best game of the year to you right now well go buy this thing. Just so you know I'm trying to run this thing on an intel core i7 6700k with 16GB of DDR4 Ram and a gtx 1080 so all I have to is: Why the hell is this series so bad. Also I want to point out that I bought this game for the remaster only and I can't even get that to run properly either so avoid at all cost.  Update: For those that think that I'm lying about my specs well here's a picture of my computer and also here's a screenshot of my computer for your enjoyment. Will be posting a video about this issue soon.  http://imgur.com/a/Op4k7  Update 2: For those that say just keep the game wait for a patch to come my response to that is look at No Man Sky. Why don't you get that game and just grind through it waiting for a patch to come out for it that can fix all of the issues wrong with that game such as crashing, hitching, etc. Besides all those issues with that game it's perfect right.  Update 3: For those that want video proof about the issue I'm facing here it is for your eyes to behold.   YouTube™ Video:   Views: 0   Update 4: Ok so I finally got the game running properly in that it no longer stutters or crashes. So the way I was able to fix it thanks to the the comments that weren't blaming my toaster was by going into the Nvidia control panel and turning the power management mode to \"Prefer maximum performance\" which was able to stablize the game a bit and also I had to mess around with the ini files and then I had to reinstall the game a thrid time and by doing that I don't know what happened but I was able to run the game in fullscreen mode which fixed all the issues. I also ran the game in borderless fullscreen and I found the game to go back to that unstable point when I created this review yesterday. Again I want to thank everyone in the comments that tried to help a big thanks. Side note if you do have to play this in bordrless fullscreen don't have any type of overlays or fps counter or anything running because it drops the framerate significantly.","hours":4.5,"funny_percent":0.04139715394566624,"helpful_percent":0.6946959896507116}
{"review":"What the game does phenomenally well starts and ends with the story. The gameplay resolutely avoids all the creative possibitilies of its situation, and instead, offers an appetizer style of gameplay moments from prior games like Advanced Warfare, Ghosts, and Black Ops.  As Reyes, Captain of the Retribution Space Warfare Carrier, you'll be opening all your own doors, hacking blockers in your path, front lining battles, and pushing progression buttons all the while your subordinates idle nearby with deadpan stares that lack eye blinking. Interestingly enough, you do have a voice as Reyes which further pulls you into the story, but delivery is flat and never quite achieves a sense of personality like in the past with Captain Price, Soap, or Sandman.  Do I have something visceral against HUBs? I don't feel so, I try to keep an open mind. It would give me enormous satifascation (and relief) to like HUBs in a game, but I suggest they made a tactical error when they created a HUB in a manner which the pacing has the effect of an overly written daytime soap, and then expect us to hang in there for the entirity of the performance.  Long stretches of cutscenes / vignettes bridge together short-lived moments of gameplay, and often enough, come as a sharp intervention during gameplay. Player control is something you'll often find yourself yearning for as hand-holding sytems like the \"auto pilot\" mode from the Jackals extend their reach into traditional first person shooter gameplay.  Conor McGregor has a cameo much shorter than any of Stan Lee's in the MCU, and at times you forget Kit Harington is a villian with his lack of a meaningful menacing presence. The game takes away control by hitting you on the head as a reminder with a fullscreen shader video of an angry and sullen monologue where Harington looks like he can barely contain his doubts about the project after the Reveal Trailer dislike frenzy. Your Humanoid robot, while pulling cues from the beloved TARS robot in \"Interstellar\", never reaches his full potential as a significant companion due to the lack of direct interactions during gameplay -- take away the witty lines and he'd be just another redshirt.  Difficulty was unusually harder than past titles, playing on Regular felt like Veteran in addition to a very noticable lack of check points requiring you to play through significant battles from the start. Most battles are chock-full of spider bots as if a saving grace for fun gameplay, and enemies have a dinstinctly similar color pallette as both the environment and your allies making it indistinguishable on who to shoot half the time. Between your screen going blurry from a single hit, mud and smoke covering your screen, or total black out, designers relentlessly (and unashamedly) throw as many HUD shaders at you to make it harder to see and hit enemies.  The campaign isn't all bad though, it starts to get its footing towards the end with missions that have you on a frantic chase through a French Gothic style building or infiltrating an enemy sub-orbital space station. Judging by the evidence on the screen while playing, it feels like there was a disconnect between the writers and designers, with everybody reassuring themselves that since they hired game writers who worked on The Last of Us, inspiration would overcome the team for gameplay.  As someone who is a big sci-fi and space fan, I was hoping for more creative vision when it came to the expierence as a player, fortunately though, I saw a really solid story play out. At 4.5 hours doing the main quests and watching the pre-rendered videos, it's worth playing if you can forgive the gameplay and appreciate the artistry in the story.","hours":6,"funny_percent":0.02857142857142857,"helpful_percent":0.7928571428571428}
{"review":"i Can't play this game. the Game only freeze or Crash! wtf is wrong with the developers? selling a product that's not working ?!??!??  * If i go back to menu it freeze. * If i change graphics it freeze. * If i try join a game, it disconnect. * The champain game mode are stopping at the end of loading * The zombie game mode i get Black screen if i try start Singel player game.  So nothing works at all! ! ! ","hours":32.1,"funny_percent":0.11014851485148515,"helpful_percent":0.6905940594059405}