{"funny_percent":0.0125,"helpful_percent":0.8947587183470628,"review":"This is truly as good as everybody says, it is not overhyped. First, every set of levels has a unique puzzle element, and the levels are designed to very cleverly make use of this puzzle element to solve the level. The game is both hard and fun. Because you can come back later for some things, even though the puzzles are hard, you don't have to get stuck there.   Another thing is that the whole game revolves around a fairly layered and interesting story. There's the main story, the releationship allegory, and a deeper set of references... This is a great game.","hours":12}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9952480625280673,"review":"Braid is... Not For Everyone  The time twisting, puzzle platformer is brilliantly made, fantastically designed but a killer on the brain. The introduction to the game drip feeds you the information you are required to complete it, and its all down to you to apply the knowledge you have been given.   Now this is where opinions will divide; I enjoyed the challenge and that inspired me to push on. You could argue this game is actually really boring, I would disagree, but essentially it is advanced jumping with time elements. The story is strong, the character is great, albeit eccentrically odd, and the mechanics are near flawless. If you are a naysayer, play this in chunks and it'll win you round.   I think compared to other indie titles this game is perfectly priced at £5 - £10. If you don't enjoy the art style, then anything below that and you have got a steal and its worth a shot.   Notes Steam Achievements, No Trading Cards, Full Controller Support.","hours":12.2}
{"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":0.8013452297723629,"review":"One of the most acclaimed puzzle-platformers, Braid led the first generation of mainstream indie games. Its level and puzzle design are nearly flawless as they instruct the player in each world's time altering mechanics while also providing compelling challenge. Most of Braid can be played non linearly, so if you get stuck you can try another level and maybe later come back with new ideas to the one you left. It's still beatiful though it has aged a bit. I'd appreciate a hint system but I respect Jonathan Blow not wanting to compromise his design vision. The story has multiple layers of meaning though you'll have to finish the game to see the whole picture understand it in restropect.","hours":13}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7130007601034869,"review":"A damn good game, this one. Back when i was not so much into indie games, i saw \"Indie Game: The Movie\" which drove me to get this game. I did and played it and just loved it. The puzzles were really great and even a bit tough and they kept me thinking about how to get that puzzle piece even when i wasn't playing the game. I literally kept thinking most of the day. No game has ever done that to me before i think. And when i solved the puzzle somehow, i felt this great sense of achievement and it made me so happy. Even made me feel very intelligent :p . I fell in love with this game. Loved the concept, loved the gameplay, loved the puzzles. The story was a bit confusing for me but i liked it nonetheless. I even kept staring at the screen for a long time to figure out how i can solve the puzzle. And then i discovered .. I would rate this game 10/10.","hours":4.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9166437687830558,"review":"AT A GLANCE (Full review follows below)  Game Name: Braid Original Release: 2009 Genre Tags: Puzzle-Platformer; 2D; Time-Warp My Overall Grade: B+ Estimated Playtime (Campaign): 4-6 hours Multiplayer Aspect: None Recommended To: Established fans of the genre; Those intrigued by the genre; Puzzle game aficionados  REVIEW Braid is a short and sweet puzzle/platformer with an quasi-innovative time-manipulation aspect. The ability to rewind time not only allows for intriguing gameplay, but also provides a good way for there to be challenging puzzles without the game becoming unnecessarily frustrating. If you like puzzle/platformers, this should be high on your list of games to try.  The game mixes elements of puzzlers and platforming to form its identity. And there is a comfortable familiarity to the game which should feel inviting to most gamers. It starts off mostly focused on thinking-based puzzles and then a little while into the game there does start to be some platforming aspects sprinkled in, where your reaction time and precision abilities will be tested. But for the most part it's pretty mild and not that hard. Again, the time-manipulation also helps alleviate some of the difficulty of the platforming sections. It works out so a large majority of people should have an easy time enjoying Braid.  And as you progress through the game you will unlock different time-manipulation abilities which will need to be used properly to complete your quest. So the gameplay evolves throughout the campaign, keeping things fresh and keeping your mind active.  There isn't much of a story to be mentioned, but the game doesn't really need one. There is a strong influence of old school platformers (i.e.: the early Mario Bros. games). In that vein, there is a basic purpose to your actions, but no need for a sprawling narrative. Your quest in Braid is to traverse hostile lands to rescue a kidnapped princess, what else do you really need to know. Also, there isn’t that much of an immersive atmosphere either. The ambiance feels very nondescript and purely functional. However, none of this is a bad thing; Braid is simply a game that is focused on gameplay, purposefully minimizing the other distractive aspects.  And so I definitely recommend you check out Braid if you’re a fan of the puzzle/platformer genre and are looking for a new game that focuses on gameplay. Also if you are someone who loves a real challenge, the speed-run achievement can give you a nice \"run for your money.”  Follow my curation page to see more of my recommendations!","hours":4.8}
{"funny_percent":0.06349206349206349,"helpful_percent":0.8229730869321299,"review":"Sometimes, when watching a film or reading a novel, you feel a burn of emotion deep inside your chest. Something that affects you so profoundly that it moves beyond being just a form of media. It is internalized and remembered forever.  Braid is one of those things. But it isn't just an example of art in gaming, it's a game full of pure genius as well.  The game, at first, comes off as a platformer. There are relatively little instances of hardcore platforming in the game, and they usually only serve as a medium to allow you to interact with the puzzle that you're dealing with. Make no mistake, this is a puzzle game at heart.  The puzzles here are incredibly good, and very well scaled from level to level. The first two levels are relatively easy and will only take you a few minutes, the third is a bit harder, and the last puzzles will make you feel like your brain is deflated. The amount of time that you'll have to put into each puzzle may be debilitating for some, but the sheer joy and pleasure of solving one overcomes any sense of stress that staring at your screen racking your brain may cause. These aren't just run of the mill puzzles, either. There are a number that are, in my mind, some of the best puzzles that I've ever seen in a game.  The art direction is beautiful. The backgrounds are watercolor constructed, they're vibrant and bright, and dark and brooding. The soundtrack is perfectly placed and flooded with beautiful violin work. Each are augmented by an incredibly written preface that comes prior to starting each level. The story is written so broadly and so metaphorically that it can literally be translated to represent whatever the player would like it to. The ending represents one of the epic twists in video game history, and does so in game -- a puzzle in itself.  I literally cannot think of one thing that I dislike about this game. It could be longer, but length can't really be expected from a game that costs so little.  There is so much value stuffed into the 10ish hours that you'll spend playing this game, it's hard to put it into words any other way than just to spout off the cliche of \"buy it and experience it yourself\". It's an experience to be had, and it's one of the most artistically beautiful exhibits in gaming history that is guaranteed to affect you in a most profound way.","hours":2.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7941812036528926,"review":"On the issue of games as art, I think Braid makes a very convincing affirmative case. While it is clearly the singular expression of a theme and voice, this is not to say that the game is not all one would want from a game - immersive, rewarding, inviting, and fun.  Braid in my mind is essentially flawless and seamless in every respect - the sound design, the level design, the visuals, the mechanics, they all come together to create a challenging, thought-provoking experience. The player is drawn into a minimal, abstract narrative, invited to make sense of it, and indeed in this mind of exploration and this process of discovery, brought through a procedure of new mechanics, new challenges, all building upon each other systematically.   This is the thing that probably most appeals to me about this game: its ability to be both thorough and systematic with the progression of challenges and the introduction of mechanics - and indeed the construction of narrative, emotionality, and theme, mutually interwoven - and simultaneously fluid and impressionistic in terms of visuals and its ability to blur mediums and narrative realities. The means by which the player can explore time are introduced procedurally, but they allow the player to explore the world in a way that alters its structure and flow, indeed these mechanics encourage the player to alter the way they think about that world and its construction. So too is this true of the themes and narrative of the game - introduced piece by piece, but out of order both in terms of time and place. In this sense, I believe Braid is the sum of a reciprocity between systematic and fluid construction and interpretive process - a game about tackling mechanics and proceding through levels, doubling back on old knowledge and synthesizing new solutions, and a narrative about interpreting memories, parsing trauma, constructing ideas and reconstructing ideas.   In this all I think stories about exploring time travel to complete levels, wallowing in failed romance, indulging in nostalgia, creating art and destroying art become very similar narrratives - all of this communicated in the language of games, that is mechanics, and the tropic language of games in general, a very fundamental aesthetic of platform gaming and its time tested genre trappings.  But fundamentally what motivated me through playing this game was the intrigue of discovering new mechanics and exploring levels, the sense of reward contained within that. And ultimately I believe that is what makes this game so successful, its ability to function on these different levels, and have these different levels be in communication with one another and elevate each other - indeed to bring to attention that process, to weave these threads and braid them into a whole.   So, in totality, Braid is just a great game, a great work of art. I would suggest sitting with it, enjoying it, thinking about it, struggling with it.","hours":5.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9293457642482751,"review":"What if you could go back in time and undo a mistake?  What if you are the mistake?    Braid belongs on a list of top games of all time. It is a work of art.  If you have not played Braid yet, I would ask you to stop what you are doing right now and buy it.  Being a puzzle platformer, Braid has excellent and unique art, music, concept, and story. The simple platformer type works well on both PC and consoles.  My one critique is that the ending is somewhat unfulfiling in that the designer got all artsy-fartsy and left the meaning open to wild interpretation. Either he just didn't have a moral to tell at the end, or he went with the \"bluster them with bulls**t\" strategy, and I'm thinking it was the latter.  But, even if you don't care about the background story and getting all deep into the meaning of it all, the puzzles should entertain.","hours":17.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8004072125897042,"review":"One word for each aspect of this game.  Story - Symbolic. Characters - Basic. Gameplay - Fascinating. Immersion - Good. Environment - Artistic. Graphics - Simple. Sound - Fair. Music - Exquisite.  Overall - Riveting.","hours":9.1}
{"funny_percent":0.058823529411764705,"helpful_percent":0.7408507173838912,"review":"This is a masterpiece of game design. The puzzles constantly troll you when you go into a natural rhythm, forcing you to rethink your approach and choose a path that might not always seem obvious. The visuals and sound are all very atmospheric and still hold up after 8+ years. My main criticism is that the ending is only unlocked after you've finished all of the puzzle pieces from the whole world, which can be a little irritating if you're stuck on a puzzle for a little while. Still, every puzzle (except for 1 in the first world) presents you with what you need to complete it, so you're never left wondering if there's something that you're missing a critical component. Overall, an amazing game and truly ahead of its (and our) time.","hours":4.9}
{"funny_percent":0.05714285714285714,"helpful_percent":0.8213662913702181,"review":"Braid is a platforming puzzle game which was released on Xbox Live initially in 2008 before later being ported onto PC in 2009. You play the character, Tim, as you attempt to rescue the princess from a monster (very cliche!).   Game play in Braid looks like a very generic puzzle platformer on face value, however with the addition of the special ability to manipulate time by rewinding and fast forwarding, you can find yourself in some very unique situations. The other gameplay elements are very much the same though, running, jumping and climbing around a standard platforming environment. Each level in the game adds a little bit of a change to the time bending ability which keeps things fresh each time you progress.   Braid is a very simple looking game; the graphics are standard two 2D style, however they do have a very pleasing charm to it. The art style within the game is just gorgeous to look at. The art work alone apparently took over a year to produce, and you can really tell a huge amount of heart and effort went into creating it.   The plot in Braid is very intriguing indeed. You are certainly in for a few twists and turns and very unpredictable outcomes throughout - I was personally in no way shape or form expecting the end of the game to end up how it did; and that is a nice change from a game since they can sometimes become very predictable. After finishing the game, you are able to find additional text that expand the story even further too.   The music used in Braid was selected by the developer himself, from licensed music, this was done to reduce the cost in the development stage. What I really liked about the music is that each tune has a different feel to it when you re-wind time in game; its a really small element, but it makes a huge difference to how you feel when playing.   I found Braid to be a difficult game; purely because I am the worst person possible when it comes to 1) Puzzles and 2) Platformers. Put the two together and it's just a mess. At times I had to resort to a trusty walkthrough to work it out, but for the majority of the time I was able to figure out each level on my own. Puzzle veterans may well find this game's puzzles to be easy, and still struggle on the platforming element to it!  Braid took me just over six hour to complete; this was purely a run through the story mode; there are a lot of Jigsaw pieces to find in the game which result in achievements, so will add a couple more hours of gameplay. Some of which are unobtainable at the first time of coming across them, so a little bit of replaying older levels is needed to collect them all. However I personally see no reason to replay the game only for the achievements. The story and gameplay 100% linear.   I had no technical problems whilst playing. Braid can be played at all resolutions up to 4k in windowed mode and full screen. A controller, as always with platformers is highly recommended to play but can also be played with keyboard.   To sum up, I am only going to Recommend Braid, simply because the two genres put together are my least favorite of all time, however take that with a pinch of salt because if you really enjoy puzzle/platformers, then this game is certainly for you and you need to pick it up, even at the full price of £6,99 this game is a steal!   Tom's Score Card 1) Stay away 2) Only recommended when on sale 3) Recommended 4) Highly recommended 5) This is a must play  If you found this review helpful, please consider giving it a thumbs up. You can also find more reviews over at http://www.completingthebackloggroup.com/  ","hours":6.5}
{"funny_percent":2.4193548387096775,"helpful_percent":0.9057540528054792,"review":"Braid isn't fun  wait, that's not what i meant to do   od ot tnaem i tahw ton s'taht, tiaw nuf t'nsi diarb     Braid IS fun","hours":0.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.909032861658993,"review":"This game is awesome.  Music, character story, sense of game is 10/10.  But to be honest, if you will try this game, you'd never play this game again :)  Total rating: 11/10 of course","hours":1.9}
{"funny_percent":0.08333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.9517978674606731,"review":"Braid is one of the best arguments for video games as an artistic medium. This game is made up of much more than than its pleasantly detailed art style and its perfectly meditative background music with a few clever puzzles thrown in for interest. No, Braid is a game that focuses on exploring a concept, on teaching a truth, through challenges it presents to the player. Each of the game's six worlds begins with a few paragraphs of pure exposition, but the purpose this serves is more to provide context to the questions that follow than as storytelling. With the primer read, the world begins with its unique take on time manipulation - its own 'what if' in the form of puzzles. Solving these puzzles grants the player a piece of a larger picture and, more importantly, a better understanding of the complexities involved in playing a scenario out over and over again until the desired result is achieved. These 'lessons' are confined to their own particular world; the new mechanics don't build on each other, which is in itself another lesson.  As incredible as teaching through player experimentation is, what makes Braid truly great is all of that pretension can be skipped by if so desired. The player can run right past any annotations without pause; what remains are puzzles that are just as engaging, art that is just as charming, and music that is just as sublime.","hours":5.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7482728206467614,"review":"Fantastic, intelligent, brilliant and with a lot of spirit, this has to be, beside Fez, one of the best platformers I have ever played. Highly recommended if you wannt use your brain. :)  Art style is also beautiful, music pleasant.  Graphics:\t★★★★☆ Sound:\t★★★★☆ Gameplay:\t★★★★★ Music:\t★★★★★ Overall:\t★★★★★ ","hours":1.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8929101532853752,"review":"It's mindblowing for a side-scroller. It cames to prove my motto: good graphics don't make good games. Furthermore, don't judge a book by it's cover and the smallest flasks holds the bestest perfumes and all the cliché catchphrases.  At first sight, this game seems to be just \"one more of the same\", but if you are the kind of person who gets thrilled by a good story (yes, it's a side-scroller with story), a little plot twist and written narrative elements, jump in. You won't regret it.  Besides the story, it has innovative puzzles that you must solve using some \"tools\" like a \"flash forward\" and \"rewind\" features. You could read some books at the final of each stage, knowing more and more about the game's story.  In short, it's hard to praise and explain how this game is good without spoil all the fun.","hours":18.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9305757322398812,"review":"An intellectually stimulating combination of symbolic game design, brilliant visuals, an immersive soundtrack, and a post-modern story that will leave you pondering its implications for months. I consider this the best videogame ever made.","hours":33.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7127711999099153,"review":"First off, terrific sound track. If there's a soundtrack version buy it. The art style and animation is great, actually better than great. The story is good but it's kept a bit separate from the game play and you might have a question or two in the end (I think that was on purpose though, to create debate). Most puzzle are solvable with a few tough nuts but the ability to skip puzzles until later is nice. Often something in a later puzzle will give you a flash of realization about an earlier puzzle. Not a particularly long game, unless you like speed runs, but for a few bucks it's worth seeing why there are so many indie puzzle-platformers right now.   YouTube™ Video: Sweet Soundtracks - Cheap & Cheerful - Bastion, Dysfunctional Systems, Braid  Views: 37 It's been awhile but it's a new year and time for a new episode. It's games with soundtracks worth owning. Buy Bastion:... ","hours":11.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9428749047119556,"review":"Braid is an outstanding and important example of the development in video game design. With it's beautiful graphics and haunting soundtrack, as well as the clever gameplay, Braid should definitely be played by any gamers that know of the nostalgia that comes from rescuing princesses from castles.","hours":31.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9821907922971793,"review":"I will recommend the game to those that like platformers with jumping through levels and solving minor puzzles. Controls in the game are simple, much like mario the core of the game is running and jumping, but they do throw some time manipulation in. And since you are reversing time you can't die in the game, as you just turn back time.  The simple and easy to understand mechanics is the very core of the game, and the story isn't really all that interesting.  but other than that the story can pretty much just be ignored. It is about having fun with time and puzzles.  The different worlds vary a bit in how you play with time, so there is some variation. The one I found to be the hardest was one where the world moves back and forth as you move. So move left and time reverse and right time goes forward.  So yeah. A good experience if you are just in the mood for playing around with a platformer, that doesn't punish you at all for making mistakes.","hours":4.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8497171830254141,"review":"I really want you to play this!  In fact, I can't be totally objective about it, because this game is one of my absolutely favorite ones, but I'm going to state that this the most well-made game in the whole universe.  I mean, not a single component is out or feels weak, everything is how you want and expect it to be, or maybe even beyond your imagination. I'll try to give a clue about what the game is...  It's a looking-like-Super Mario Bros.-platformer with a deep thrilling storyline and amazing mind-blowing puzzles that that require various manipulations with time.  Our hero is able to turn the time back to the any point after you entered a stage without any limits or restrictions. Basically, you use to switch the time back if you die, so there're no game overs or anything in that kind. You don't have to restart a level when you die, you can just switch back the time to the point you can fix your faults and just move on. But what's more - in this game you use time switches for solving puzzles.  The game is separated by worlds and every world has it's unique features, like time-resistant objects; shadows, that repeat your moves, which were previously recorded by you; a ring, that freezes the time in a little range around it and more. All these things will help you to solve the puzzles and save the precious Princess...or not. The difficulty of some puzzles is pretty challenging, it can require some great patience and irregular way of thinking. Also, the difficulty doesn't really change gradually. Every world has some relaxing and insane puzzles, they're just different in the way of solving. So you won't get bored nor annoyed.   Every world has it's own atmosphere. Fantastic soundtrack and drawn game art will make you shiver every time you touch this masterpiece. Plus the storyline.   Actually, if you play through this game quickly - you might not even notice it, because the whole story is written in the books which you may just skip. But you shouldn't, really. I spent an insane time playing this game before purchasing a Steam copy. Maybe to discover its' secrets, beat all challenges, etc, or maybe just to be in-game, in this gorgeously-made world. But the best thing that I've discovered over time is a plot. It made me look at this game at the absolutely different point of view. I found out that every single world, every single piece of a puzzles that you collect, world's atmosphere and their features - everything is related to the plot, which is rather ambiguous, full of metaphors and sense.   I won't pretend to spoil about it, so just try this out yourself, it's an absolutely unique experience in the wold of games, so don't miss it and play this game right now!","hours":5.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.999914975057407,"review":"Artistic value is fantastic, music is alright, controls are fantastic, storyline is good - just not my cup of tea. Doesn't mean I cant have appreciation and respect for a job well done!","hours":1.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9798059898857696,"review":"Wow, how could I never have left feedback on my all-time favourite game I have played since 2010 :o","hours":10.3}
{"funny_percent":0.15384615384615385,"helpful_percent":0.9142542241758032,"review":"Very enjoyable game. I like the graphics' art and the soundtrack. The gameplay is very easy and the puzzles satisfying. I would prefer it to last a little bit longer, but all the stages are replayable separately.","hours":7.4}
{"funny_percent":0.14814814814814814,"helpful_percent":0.7144876579102363,"review":"The True Time Manipulation Game.","hours":5.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7750385159325579,"review":"This game belongs with Portal and Antichamber on any list of the best puzzle games ever made. All the puzzles involve time manipulation in some way and they are all original ideas you won't have seen before. The last level is one of the most clever I've ever seen and the plot is deep and thought-provoking. It's very hard to find anything to complain about here.","hours":18.4}
{"funny_percent":0.16666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.781403503134646,"review":"overall i liked the game it was just puzzling enough to keep me busy but not to hard to discourage. i like the story even if it was a bit confusing at times and the inde style was interesting it reminded me of all the games like raymon and mario but was a lot like the internet flash game fancy pants. i liked it for all of 4 hours which is how long it took me to get through all the story. after i was done admiring the art, and the story, the puzzles, and format, i remembered that i payed 14 almost 15 buck for it and that put a sour taste in my mouth. i will be sure to replay it several times but to me for the length and difficulty i feel like it was too much.","hours":4.1}
{"funny_percent":0.16666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.9122141130191768,"review":"This game is basically:  Solve as many puzzles as possible Keep trying to solve the others Solve one or two more 'Oh my god, these puzzles are brilliant.' Keep trying to solve the rest Give up and Google the answers, kicking yourself at how stupid you are Go to the final world No puzzles - thank God Go to the final level Beat it 'Oh, that was a cool, if generic. 'running away from evil character' final boss, I'm satisfied.' 'Wait, what's going on?' Get one of the best video game twists ever, told in a brilliant way Literally gape at this game's genius Debate online about what exactly this game is actually about Spend the rest of your life with Braid's ending stuck in your head  This game is a masterpiece.","hours":9.3}
{"funny_percent":0.3333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.7053207450493603,"review":"PROS: - Great level design and smooth controls - Unique puzzle platformer mechanics - Beautiful painting-style art - Very comfy soundtrack - Fascinating story  CONS: - Some puzzles/secrets may be too difficult for beginners - The Princess is in another castle  \"Braid\" is a very well made indie puzzle platformer that revolves around time manipulation, critical thinking and a surprisingly deep back story. Highly recommend this unique gaming experience to all gamers.","hours":4.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7631542880369795,"review":"Braid is one of those love it or hate it kind of games. It looks outstanding and the music is also very good but the gameplay and puzzles can be very hard on the brain. It feels great to solve one of the many puzzles but at the same time i feel it tries to be a little bit too clever for its own good at times. Apart from that it is well worth the price i payed for it on sale and its fun to jump into for a little time bending action every now and then. Be warned it will make your head hurt.","hours":11}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7552017925601419,"review":"A brilliantly designed game featuring smart puzzles, excellent music, beautiful art and a meaningful narrative executed perfectly within the mechanics of the game.","hours":9.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9786240826566156,"review":"A real piece of Art.   ","hours":1.9}
{"funny_percent":0.25,"helpful_percent":0.7685898258505466,"review":"Great game,really deep story and fun storytelling. 10/10 recommended","hours":1.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8389004799055441,"review":"You manipulate time to pass levels in an actual painted canvas. How awesome is that.","hours":7.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9184859699883585,"review":"\"...beautiful, entertaining, and inspiring.\" - 10/10 Eurogamer","hours":0.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8569831231199022,"review":"Original gameplay, hard but rewarding puzzles, beautiful soundtrack and a twist in the end that will let you speechless.  SCORE: 99/100 (a little too short)","hours":14.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7579802978836139,"review":"Solid puzzle platformer. Clever idea.","hours":5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8689626759383576,"review":"This is my favorite platform puzzle game on the PC due to its originality and outside-the-box thinking. Easily better than Limbo, for example. The most talked about part of this game is the ability to rewind thus erasing your mistakes. One could think that if you could erase all your mistakes, the game would be boring. However, without giving away any spoilers, Braid has a way of making this rewind feature very interesting. Bonus: the music is peaceful and catchy, and the artwork is very impressive. Although the Metacritic score is 90, I only highly recommend this game if you enjoy tough puzzles.","hours":25.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7247616675976369,"review":"Good progression curve and the interesting puzzles had solutions which felt great to figure out but didn't need hints to do. It took a long time to finish but was worth playing through for me and is still fun because the mechanics are amusing.","hours":0.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7457413688096134,"review":"The story of Braid, fully explored, rightfully evokes the elusive, raw human emotion of awe. Marvelously clever and unique, Braid leaves players pondering its implications long after gameplay is over; layers of stories and thought-provoking concepts are set alongside beautiful graphics, music, and unique puzzles.","hours":33.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9371092832355672,"review":"This game is a poem, a fiction, a masterpiece.","hours":24.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9559761474473636,"review":"I think this is one of the best games ever made.  Original gameplay, perfect music, beautifull graphics and an excelent story with a very deep message. This a master piece of art.  10/10","hours":6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8277635624216385,"review":"Very cool, interesting puzzle platformer. Poked at my mind in new ways (like to the Rubiks Cube, and Portal did). The last level was mind-blowing.","hours":4.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7305839945047332,"review":"Most innovative game I have ever found.","hours":2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9939947372453055,"review":"To me, this is the best game ever made.","hours":3.7}
{"funny_percent":0.125,"helpful_percent":0.9679592958768302,"review":"This game is beautiful. If you don't like thinking, please don't play it, but for those who do, it's just fabulous.  The incredible thing is, it's not the art, or music, or story that makes this game so incredible. The mechanics of the game itself are beautiful. It's not for everyone, and it's really painful to watch someone play who, from their point of view, is playing a forgiving platformer with a nice art style and some unique gameplay, because those who love it see it as so much more.  There's a few puzzles that feel kinda out of place, but after world 3, please never look up a solution to a puzzle ever. This is my favorite indie game of all time, and has completely changed video games for me.","hours":39.6}
{"funny_percent":0.06666666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.8290317966834228,"review":"When the great movie critic Roger Ebert said that videogames are not, and will never be art, half the Internet rushed to convince him otherwise. Braid was one of the games they showed him as examples of art in form of videogames. He dismissed it saying he's not \"persuaded that I can learn about my own past by taking back my mistakes in a video game\", and called the story \"prose on the level of a wordy fortune cookie\". There was hardly a worse choice of game to show the movie critic -- not because it's a bad game, but because it relies heavily on hundreds of hours of other games' experience, playing with it, twisting the familiar mechanics, betraying the expectations and subverting the rules. Hours that Ebert obviously never experienced, so the words like \"Your princess is in another castle\" meant nothing for them, and the subversion that came with them (I'm not going to spoil that) never connected to anything. I'm not sure what the game's true story is -- it might be about the atomic bomb, or about a creepy stalker with a crush, or about time travel. What I'm sure is, it's about these hours we've spent playing Mario that suddenly turn inside out, showing that what once used to be a simple kid's fun can work as a mature artistsic medium, telling stories and bringing up emotion without a single line of text.","hours":4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7750902394207789,"review":"After reading some of the negative reviews here on steam i feel like a really clever guy. I didn't need any walkthrough and still i finished this game in around 5 hours. I really don't get how people aren't able to solve the puzzles in this game and even worse give it a bad review for that reason. There is nothing too cryptic. All the Puzzles are designed around \"turn back time\" (with some different twists and mechanics). The game itself is great. The Artstyle and Music is beautiful and the story is surprisingly interesting. For me it was a very relaxing experience.  I even spent some time speedrunning this game (currently i'm on rank 19th on speedrun.com) after i beat it because it was \"that fun\". I really recommend it.","hours":41.9}
{"funny_percent":0.1111111111111111,"helpful_percent":0.8201073848722222,"review":"Its hard to describe this game without overusing the word \"beautiful\"; Braid is in my top 10 favourite games of all times and its definitely my favourite indie game.  Everything in the game seem to be an artwork: the music, the background, the puzzles, the storyline, sound effects, mechanics... its involving, gets you deep in the story if you try to follow it. Its challenging enough to get you thinking, but once you think, you get it. The puzzles are not long, everything you need to know is *there* (well, except for one single specific puzzle but that ain't a dealbreaker I assure you) and rarely rely on dexterity (unless you're interested in speed runs).  The story is fantastic and got me thinking a while, but there is a \"k00l secret ending l33t for science\" which I didn't find cool at all. Basically, the first immediate one is a love story and the second one... its more about work and science (no spoilers shall be given), really, and it ain't all that beautiful. That's my only complaint about the game: the regular ending leaves some things in the air that only make sense in the pr0-tröö-g4m3r secret one, but the regular ending sounded way more appealing to me, and I wish the developer would have exploited more the vanilla one.  If you like achievement hunting there isn't much challenge in this one here, except for the speed run achievement, which might need some practice but its not overfrustrating.","hours":9.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8898267089056733,"review":"Must be tons of reviews/recommendations by now. If you haven't played this game yet I'll write why you may want to consider this, especially if it's sitting in your library. Like a fine bottle of wine, maybe it's time to open it.  So many indie games nowadays, but where did all these greenlight games spark from? It may be debatable, I certainly don't think Braid was the origin, but definitely a large contributor to the catalytic process. It was released back in 2008/2009, about 7 years ago.  Why didn't I play it sooner? I have a lot of memories of playing 2D platformers back in the early 1990's. A lot of them were very painful, like The Simpsons: Bart vs. the Space Mutants.   Braid is actually a very well designed game. It's not painful to play. There are about 5 main worlds. Each of these worlds have unique mechanics that are activated mainly by rewinding time. So the whole rewinding thing isn't just a blatant rip off from Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time ... which was one of my main concerns, thus delaying Braid, as I had enjoyed PoP very much.  What made this game fit all together nicely IMHO is actually the colourful dynamic background art and Irish Folk/Celtic genre of music. But what has made this game legendary to some people? It's the story. Only at the very end there's a twist! When you finish the game, there's a lot of unanswered questions which will get you to go researching online for the interpretation of what had actually happened. In essence the story is one big metaphor. There are also some nifty tricks that can be done to confirm it, if you are one to stray away from linear gameplay.  Which brings me to ... well there are some really interesting and nutty people in life. You know the ones that do some really crazy stuff in games because they may be genuinely really interested in it. And John Blow had ingeniously catered for that crowd. I suggest playing through the worlds by yourself figuring out each puzzle. They're doable, trust me ... if I can do it, you can too :) Don't look up some walkthrough. But once your done with the closure of the game ... if you're content with the amount of puzzles you've solved ... feel free to do so.  Having said that, I really don't like games where you can't go back and complete some small task or quest without having to replay the entire game again. What's ironic about this is I think this is a feature that stems from classic Japanese adventure video games. Something that Blow and Fish have complained about...   Is the game epic? It's definately quite an accomplishment. To many people, I know this game is seen as epic. My personal preference however says it's a good game ... that somehow has become overrated.   I can't quite point my finger on it though. I guess for me 2D platformers still have some sort of historical limitation. Like I remember games like Super Mario Bros. 3 when finding secrets like warp whistles ... etc ... that was exciting! Hopping in a boot in Ice World and sliding. Or jumping on a Parabeetle. Those were the moments! And spending late nights with sleepovers at friends places ... leaving the Nintendo on all night but turning the CRT TV off with the pull/push switch. That's a magic that I don't think can be replicated these days even with a game like Braid. Perhaps maybe for a younger generation, but we can't ignore the fact that they also have access to 3D and even VR these days.","hours":10.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8807835025796651,"review":"Must be tons of reviews/recommendations by now. If you haven't played this game yet I'll write why you may want to consider this, especially if it's sitting in your library. Like a fine bottle of wine, maybe it's time to open it.  So many indie games nowadays, but where did all these greenlight games spark from? It may be debatable, I certainly don't think Braid was the origin, but definitely a large contributor to the catalytic process. It was released back in 2008/2009, about 7 years ago.  Why didn't I play it sooner? I have a lot of memories of playing 2D platformers back in the early 1990's. A lot of them were very painful, like The Simpsons: Bart vs. the Space Mutants.   Braid is actually a very well designed game. It's not painful to play. There are about 5 main worlds. Each of these worlds have unique mechanics that are activated mainly by rewinding time. So the whole rewinding thing isn't just a blatant rip off from Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time ... which was one of my main concerns, thus delaying Braid, as I had enjoyed PoP very much.  What made this game fit all together nicely IMHO is actually the colourful dynamic background art and Irish Folk/Celtic genre of music. But what has made this game legendary to some people? It's the story. Only at the very end there's a twist! When you finish the game, there's a lot of unanswered questions which will get you to go researching online for the interpretation of what had actually happened. In essence the story is one big metaphor. There are also some nifty tricks that can be done to confirm it, if you are one to stray away from linear gameplay.  Which brings me to ... well there are some really interesting and nutty people in life. You know the ones that do some really crazy stuff in games because they may be genuinely really interested in it. And John Blow had ingeniously catered for that crowd. I suggest playing through the worlds by yourself figuring out each puzzle. They're doable, trust me ... if I can do it, you can too :) Don't look up some walkthrough. But once your done with the closure of the game ... if you're content with the amount of puzzles you've solved ... feel free to do so.  Having said that, I really don't like games where you can't go back and complete some small task or quest without having to replay the entire game again. What's ironic about this is I think this is a feature that stems from classic Japanese adventure video games. Something that Blow and Fish have complained about...   Is the game epic? It's definately quite an accomplishment. To many people, I know this game is seen as epic. My personal preference however says it's a good game ... that somehow has become overrated.   I can't quite point my finger on it though. I guess for me 2D platformers still have some sort of historical limitation. Like I remember games like Super Mario Bros. 3 when finding secrets like warp whistles ... etc ... that was exciting! Hopping in a boot in Ice World and sliding. Or jumping on a Parabeetle. Those were the moments! And spending late nights with sleepovers at friends places ... leaving the Nintendo on all night but turning the CRT TV off with the pull/push switch. That's a magic that I don't think can be replicated these days even with a game like Braid. Perhaps maybe for a younger generation, but we can't ignore the fact that they also have access to 3D and even VR these days.","hours":10.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9572251702460157,"review":"A rather difficult, but incredibly creative puzzle platformer. Very satisfying to complete these puzzles that are based around being able to control time sorta.","hours":10}