{"review":"Easy to pick up, fun to learn, and great fun to die. Infinitely replayable, and co-op makes it even better. Unless you hate the roguelite formula, this is worth a buy.","hours":29.4,"funny_percent":0.028985507246376812,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Endlessly replayable masterpiece of game design. What sets it apart from most other roguelikes is the complete lack of any kind of character progression system or item unlocks - it's completely skill based and the only reason the game gets easier with time is because you improve as a player.   The gameplay feels perfectly smooth and responsive, and even now when I'm 250+ hours into the game I'm still discovering cool new interactions and tricks that I can use to make my play more agile, refined and versatile.  In short, it's the best indie game ever made, don't miss out.","hours":281.1,"funny_percent":0.004524886877828055,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"123 hours and 493 deaths later, I have finally conquered this beast.  Don't be fooled by the seemingly simple gameplay. On the inside, this is a very complex game.  In the beginning, you gleefully frolic through a beautiful system of caves hoarding every piece of shining gold or gleaming jewel in sight. \"This is great!\" you think to yourself as you open a chest full of rubies and emeralds. You start to whistle a tune as you delve deeper into the caverns. Then you see a golden idol. Excitedly, you grab it. The caves start to shake as a giant boulder comes tumbling toward you at high speeds. With a lucky jump, you survive the huge ball of death. A few seconds later, a spider comes out of nowhere and knocks you down a pit, where you're met with an angry old shopkeeper who is maniacally running, jumping, and firing his shotgun. You're struck with a bullet and sent over a ledge. As you slam into the ground, an arrow is launched from an inconveniently placed trap directly into your face. As you might imagine, you're now dead. Adding insult to injury, your lifeless corpse is flung directly into a pit of spikes.  This experience leaves you speechless. As you recover from this ordeal, you think to yourself \"That wasn't fair.\" Little do you know, the whole thing was entirely your fault. You had failed to thoroughly scan your surroundings before grabbing that cursed piece of gold. Turns out, the boulder had obliterated an altar, causing a swarm of angry spiders to begin making their way to you. After this, the boulder rolled down a hole and smashed into the wall of a weapon shop, sending the shopkeeper into a violent frenzy. This is when one of the provoked spiders jumps onto your unsuspecting head and sends you to your doom.  Nearly everything in this game can lead to your death.   There are many lessons to learn in this game. With every run, you increase in knowledge and skill. Eventually you make your way out of the caves, and you're in a foreign place filled with all kinds of new things that want to kill you. That blue frog looks kinda cute, right? WRONG. That \"cute\" blue frog HATES YOU. It will stop at nothing to murder you.  With every death and every success, you suddenly have a bunch of new questions. \"What is that fleshy thing sticking out of the wall?\" \"What happens if I blow this up?\" \"Can I safely traverse this terrain?\" \"Why does that gravestone say 'Ash' on it?\" You must find the answer to these questions. There is a great feeling of satisfaction and confidence every time you discover something new.   Overall, Spelunky is an amazing game. It will not fail to entertain, and will keep you coming back for more. There is plenty to discover, with lots of secrets and surprises. It's very unforgiving, and you will have to be vigilent and persistent if you want to conquer it. The extremely challenging achievements assure you that there is always another goal to reach.  Go ahead, give it a try. You'll be pleasantly surprised.","hours":150.6,"funny_percent":0.335,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Spelunky is one of those games that can only really be recommended to players with a very specific mindset about the games they play. Before I get to the good and bad of Spelunky, ask yourself the following questions:  Are you easily frustrated? Do you care mostly about finishing a game, and not so much the process of getting there? Do you react poorly to dying in a game, getting tempted to throw a controller or smash a screen? Do repetition and trial and error drive you insane? If you answered \"yes\" to one or more of those questions, Spelunky is probably not a game you would enjoy. It is frustrating, getting to its conclusion is a difficult feat, and death is the player's constant companion. It is a game that I love and hate in equal measure, simply by virtue of its design. So how does the game actually play?  If I had to use a phrase to describe it, that phrase would be \"randomized resource-management platformer of doom\". What that phrase distinctly lacks in catchiness it makes up for in accuracy. Every level in Spelunky is procedurally generated from specific \"chunks\" and configurations. The resulting semi-random level layouts means that each run is considerably different. What items, treasures, enemies and traps exist and where they are placed varies with each play of a specific level, but over time the player discovers the \"rules\" behind enemy, trap, and item behavior. Every four levels share a theme, and what dangers exist vary based on that theme. From abandoned mines to an underground jungle and beyond, the environment is as much a foe as any of its inhabitants. The number of bombs and rope the player has access to is a constant concern, only mitigated somewhat by specific items and even then never completely eliminated. Careful use of supplies, including humble environmental items like rocks, is vital to success. The player character can take extremely few hits--you start with 4 \"hearts\" of life, and every source of damage does at least one. Many can do more, or kill you outright. There are ways to increase this, one that is fairly obvious and others that are not, but death is always a very real possibility.  All that is generic. What you might find more useful in determing if the game is for you are some of my personal experiences: I died in the tutorial, at least twice.  I've been killed by, in no particular order: Snakes. Cobras. Spiders. Bigger spiders. Angry cavemen. Angry tribals. Angry shotgun-toting old men I tried to rob. Angry shotgun-toting old men I did not try to rob, but who blamed me for getting damaged. Spikes. Boulders. A different variety of spikes. Teleporting into a wall. Falling far enough to lose my last bits of life. Giant scorpions. Bombs, including bombs I placed myself. A ghost. Angering the goddess Kali. Oh, and my personal favorite, being eaten alive by a plant. That was fun. I have died more than five hundred times and not beaten the game, partially because I suck, and partially because the game is that difficult.  Despite all that, and plenty of rage quits, I keep coming back for more.  So how does all of that sound to you? \"A horrible waste of time\", \"A worthy challenge\", or somewhere in-between? If you know that, then you know whether you will enjoy Spelunky. It's a brutal, uncompromising game. It doesn't coddle the player, for better or worse. But behind all the death and frustration is a very intelligently designed game, one that feels fair despite the many, many times it has kicked my♥♥♥♥♥into the pavement. Give it a shot.","hours":54.2,"funny_percent":0.12727272727272726,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Over 240 hours, 1500+ runs, I've completed this game a measely 12 times. This is one of the most difficult games I've ever played. The seconds are minutes and minutes are hours when you're playing this game. I've been to Hell once and I only just recently finished it under 8 minutes. This game hasn't gotten stale yet but it will make you feel every emotion ten fold.  UPDATE after 519 hours of gameplay. I have unlocked all of the achievements, even the dreaded \"no gold\" one. I have completed this game countless times now, yet I still can't understate how difficult this game is. The hours I have spent in this game were well spent and for the price you're getting it for it's a steal....just don't steal from the shopkeeper.  And to the people complaining it is too hard, Spelunky is meant to be difficult, that's the challenge and the point of it. But the feeling you get when you see Yang in the treasure room overshadows all the swearing and headbanging.","hours":645.4,"funny_percent":0.04739336492890995,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Spelunky is a Platformers Nightmare. This game is very good, perfection for platformers even. With that in mind be aware that the difficulty level of this game is in your face from begining to end, so there is no curve. Added with this difficulty, this game requires survival of 15 levels on ONE life. To see the real ending there are an extra 4 levels, and side levels like the Castle, Mothership, and Worm. To get the actual ending it is required that you attain Three things that are not known right off the bat, which will require some looking up.  Overall this game is meant to kill you and break your spirit by randomizing all dugneons, items, and shops. Meaning your runs will never be the same.  If you do not like restarting your progress, getting close to the end and failing, then this game is not for you.","hours":107.9,"funny_percent":0.022222222222222223,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"This game is perfect.  You can beat it in less than 7min if you're good, or take more than 1h if you want a higher score. 999 out of 1000 deaths could be avoided if you were a bit more careful. There are no repeat levels. Every time is a new experience. I'm yet to find a bug in over 660h. Runs perfectly on potatoes and NASA machines. Controls are really smooth. You do exactly what you pressed. Music is great. Visuals are great. There's a pug who lick your face to restore health!  10/10 Best roguelike game ever made.   Update. 3k hours in. Game is still good. Can't recommend it enough.","hours":3171.9,"funny_percent":0.3695652173913043,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"I've played around 30 hours of Spelunky at this point. I am worlds better at it than I was when I first picked it up. But on my best run I still haven't even gotten to the final world yet. More often than not I can't even make it past the second world. Truth be told, I just died on the very first level on the last game I played.  So why am I giving Spelunky a thumbs up?  Because the game is fun. And fair. Mostly fair, at least.  Let's get this out of the way: Spelunky is a hard game. 30 hours in and I haven't even seen the final title set of the game. But what keeps me coming back to it is that almost every time I die, it's my fault. Spelunky rewards caution and harshly punishes hubris. While learning the ins and out of the game can be frustrating in the beginning (unless you fear spoilers, I might suggest watching a Let's Play of the game before you start just so you don't immediately get murdered), the feeling you get once you get the hang of the enemies and traps is great. By the time you feel start to feel overconfident, you make to the next world where the game humbles with new enemies and traps.  Tiki traps are still the bane of my existence, by the way.  The random generation of the levels keeps the game from feeling stale, even as you base your head against the same tile-set over and over again. As I mentioned before, the game keeps things mostly fair, though I have run into a map generated in such a way that if I didn't have bombs I could not continue, but this has only happened once or twice in 200+ runs. The traps and enemies are also mostly fair (outside of the occasional off-screen arrow trap that gets triggered before you can see it, and such).  So, seriously, if you have any stomach for rogue-like games, give Spelunky a try. Please. I could use some people new to the game so my score isn't consistantly at the bottom of the Daily Challenge anymore.","hours":32.5,"funny_percent":0.007518796992481203,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"When I first heard this described as a rogue-like game, I didn't believe it. I laughed. As someone who started with NetHack back in 1987 (yes, I'm old, thanks for noticing) and loved Moria and Dwarf Fortress, I just could not see how a platformer could possibly provide anything comparable to the same sort of play experience. Spelunky proved me wrong, in a big way.  The game starts out simple enough: spiders drop from the ceiling when you walk underneath, bats fly at you when you get close to them, snakes slither back and forth. Fine. You can run and jump, use a rope to climb to places you wouldn't otherwise reach, drop a bomb to bring down a wall or make a hole and get to otherwise unreachable areas. Cool. And each time you start the level has randomized elements so the walls and floors and treasure and monsters are in different locations so it's not predictable. Great. That alone would make a good game.  But as you advance, new enemies and items are added, along with special random areas. Each of these brings new elements that affect the gameplay not just for you but potentially with interaction with other items and creatures in the game. Very quickly your decisions become more complex. See the biggest spider you ever saw? Watch out, it's a lot harder to kill than a normal spider, so avoid at all costs... except if you kill it you can use the sticky webs to make your bombs attach to things they'd otherwise roll off of... which is fine if one blows up a higher part of the wall to get at a more valuable items but is not cool at all when you toss it at a monster who then comes chasing after you with a bomb stuck to its side ready to blow you up along with it... and even if you manage to get away it might accidentally destroy a floor you needed to run across or anger a shotgun-wielding shopkeeper or otherwise make your life more difficult. Do you do it? Decide quickly, because this isn't a turn-based game.   And then, after many deaths and many hours, you realize that you are having to make split-second decisions about bizarre questions you never thought you'd ask yourself, like \"Hey, would that giant yeti be destroyed by a land mine if I threw one just right, and is it worth trying to disarm one by hand to carry it around just in case?\" or \"How far do you suppose I'll bounce if I jump on top of this flying saucer, and does it change if I'm wearing spiked boots?\" or even \"Should I try to carry this damsel in distress over to the exit, throw her at the carnivorous plant, go find an altar to Kali, attach this sticky bomb to her while she runs off this ledge, use her as a living shield. drop her on that strange orange globular thing over there, or put her in this pit so I can grab that freeze ray gun and maybe just maybe come back for her later...?\"  You will die. A lot. But on strictly a price of the game versus how many hours of enjoyment you get out of it comparison, this is the best bargain on Steam.","hours":1534.1,"funny_percent":0.2692307692307692,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"\"The perfect videogame\" isnt a term that should be thrown around lightly, yet so very, very many times now I have heard it applied to this one game. In addition to that, Spelunky is also one of the games that is responsible for kicking off the whole trend of adding roguelike elements to games. Enough time with the game.... and it doesnt take much... and chances are, you'll see just why both of these ideas might apply here.  Spelunky is nice and simple to start with. At it's heart it's a platformer with a nice, simple goal: climb downwards through each level, and reach the exit without getting murdered by something. The simplicity also extends to just how you play it, as the controls are very streamlined and easy to learn. Jump, whip, pick up and throw things, and use bombs or ropes. There's no complicated combos here or the need to select items from an inventory or anything like that. The controls are very much what you'd expect out of a classic-style platformer. So it's nice and easy to get into, and will just feel great the whole time.  And that's a good thing, because one of Spelunky's stand-out traits is the sheer difficulty of it. You will die. Often. Even once you've performed the ancient ritual of GIT GUD, you're still going to die often. If you watch even the best players out there, they still die alot. Spelunky is a game that wont hesitate for a moment to stomp you into the dirt. You cant take much damage in this game... you start with only 4HP, and getting more health is very difficult, requiring you to rescue a \"damsel\" and take them to the exit without getting them killed, at which point you'll get exactly one more point of health once the level is over. Which is great and all, but it only helps so much, because lots of things either do a good bit more damage than just one point, or they just instakill you. In fact, the number of ways the game can insta-kill you is really high, even compared to other games of this type. Maybe you'll get crushed by something, or fall on spikes (which are everywhere) or even have a teleporter mishap and blink yourself directly into solid rock. Or a billion other things that can go horribly wrong. And even things that arent \"instant\" kills can still end your run pretty much instantly anyway. Psychic projectiles, fired by certain exceptionally powerful foes, dont instakill you... but they do a whopping 10 damage per hit, and can hit you multiple times. Similarly, bomb blasts also do silly amounts of damage. Or perhaps you'll get stunlocked. Most forms of damage will cause your character to become stunned for a time, just laying there, but you have no invincibility during this.... you can be hit again, and this will reset the stun.   With dangers this brutal, the game may sound a bit unfair. However, this is not so. At no point is the game genuinely unfair. Nor are the odds as stacked against you as they may seem. One of the biggest reasons for this is a major concept that the game uses, which is that if it seems like a particular interaction SHOULD be possible for a particular entity or thing, it probably IS possible. Take the shopkeepers for instance. Friendly at first, they'll go absolutely bonkers if you try to steal from them, turning into a geriatric tornado of shotgun pellets and murderous rage. They are extremely fast, leap around like maniacs, have high HP.... but something like spikes will insta-kill them just like it does to you. Hit them with a simple rock, and like you, they will be stunned. Like you, they'll drop the item they're carrying (their shotgun) which you can then grab for yourself.   The rules that apply to you apply to everything (with a couple of extremely specific exceptions). Enemies cannot damage each other via simple contact damage, but other than that, the level is just as dangerous for you as it is for them. Traps for instance, which are very common throughout the game and take a great many forms, dont give a flying fart about who or what the target is: They simply activate when the conditions are right and try to kill their target. The nasty arrow traps in the mines for instance fire a single super-fast arrow forward when something crosses their line of sight (fortunately they can only fire once). In most games, this would only happen to you. But in this, even a bat or a spider can get splattered by these. Or maybe a caveman gets stuck between a Tiki Trap and a wall, and gets stunlocked into oblivion by it's deadly spikes. Understanding how the interactions in the game work, and putting them to your advantage, is an important part of dealing with the problems the game will throw at you.  It's also a huge source of fun here. Often, events will play out like some sort of deranged Rube-Goldberg machine, with one thing causing a chain reaction that causes all these other things to happen. In the ice caves for instance, a yeti might step on a landmine. This explodes, sending a nearby rock through the air, which flies across the room, knocking you (or someone else) over the edge and into some spikes. Your failures are many, but they're often so darned funny that you're just not going to get too bothered by them. There is a saying that is often applied to Dwarf Fortress, which is \"Losing is FUN!!!\", and this saying can apply here too. The developer did everything to make sure that the game gives off a sense of constant fun and hilarity no matter what is happening, and it works brilliantly.  Of course, none of this would matter if the game's content weren't up to par. But it is. In here you'll find a wild variety of items, objects, and monsters to deal with, as well as fun-yet-deadly levels to go through. These levels are fully destructible, too, able to be blasted apart with your bombs (or some other things), which of course can bring about even more chaos. In each level there are also plenty of things to find. You're in this for the money, after all, so finding gold and other treasures is part of what it's all about. You may also find useful items hiding away in crates. And of course, you can buy things from shops. And these items are just FUN. There's lots of entertaining things to find and use, and even when it comes to items that might be \"bad\" in alot of ways... like the camera... you'll likely find yourself using them anyway simply because it's fun to do. There are many, many ways to play Spelunky, and you absolutely dont have to be approaching it in a super-serious way all the time. Players have come up with TONS of ideas for special \"challenge runs\", just because they can.   Of course, your initial goal should just be beating the game, and this leads to the one real issue: The game's difficulty really is very high, and it's likely to seem like a rather cruel wall at first. Chances are, you will struggle to even get out of the mines, the first of four major areas. And even once you get out of there, the next zone, the jungle, will absolutely murder your face. LOTS of players get stuck on the jungle. But it's a testament to the game's design and the sheer fun of it all that even the most beseiged players usually never give up. Even if the game keeps trashing them, they just keep coming back for more.  And dont let the apparent simplicity of the game fool you: This is a game about depth and skill, and you have many options in terms of how to deal with any situation. Making choices about how to handle things is a huge part of the game. An arrow trap in your way, but no rocks or skulls around to set it off so you can pass? Stun that nearby caveman, pick him up (yes you can pick up stunned enemies, just like you can pick up everything else) and chuck HIM into the trap's deadly gaze.  And I've ran out of space. Yet there's so much more to say! Suffice it to say...this is a good one. One of the best, even. If you even slightly enjoy platformers... you need this one. It's a classic in every sense of the word.","hours":58.8,"funny_percent":0.03773584905660377,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"At it's core, Spelunky is a precise 2D platformer, with a very simple yet elegant scoring mechanic. Each level through which you descend is littered with treasure, and your objective is to get to the end of the game, beat the boss, and escape with as much gold as you can carry with you. This would get a bit boring if the levels were the same every time, so instead the layout of the platforms, items, and enemies changes every time you retry, although the four themed areas (plus one special, secret one) always appear in the same order. Interestingly, in this version, there is a daily challenge: a seed is generated and every one who attempts the daily challenge will play the same seed, and the scores are ranked at the end. Best I've achieved is twelfth in the world. Mind you, the disparity between my score and that of the person in pole position was enormous.   It probably took me a good twenty hours of practice before I could reliably make it to the second set of levels.  You can buy and find a variety of different items to help you proceed but you always start with just four bombs and ropes. Spelunky is a tough game, for sure, and you'll need to put the effort in if you want to see all that it has to offer. Although it is possible for RNG to generously hand you a seed with a few more items and a few less traps, the randomisation isn't so extreme that luck alone is enough to make or break a run. A skilled player will always succeed, no matter what, whilst someone who hasn't quite grasped the mechanics can have all the advantages and still squander them. Death in Spelunky often comes quite quickly, and cautious play is advised. As you practice, you'll learn how to be cautious and plan ahead, whilst still being very speedy and efficient with bombs and ropes. This is important, as levels in Spelunky are timed; when the clock hits 2:30, a ghost will emerge from the nearest wall and if it touches you, your run is over.  It really put me off at first, the idea that I couldn't take my time and explore all the nooks and crannies, hoovering up every tiny speck of gold as I went. But, the ghost is essential in encouraging you to get better, to find the fastest and most efficient ways down through the level, and skilled players can even exploit its appearance for fiscal gain. Like so many aspects of Spelunky, what seems like a hardship at first gradually reveals itself to be a boon. The angry shopkeepers, a real nuisance, but when you learn how to handle them, their shops become a little treasure trove for you to plunder. Could save you a few pennies in the black market, for sure.  They say the devil is in the details, and Spelunky is full of little flourishes which really vitalise the whole experience and imbue everything with character. Take the red frogs, for example. They explode on death (a problem, or a boon?) but if they go into water, even in their death throes, they'll transform into a blue frog. It's really neat discovering stuff like that for yourself, so, sorry for spoiling that one :P  There are loads of secrets too! Most levels have just one way out, but what happens if you try to get the crown from the skeleton in the haunted jungle level, and just what is the deal with that weird, tumorous growth sprouting from the backdrop? Does it have a use? That's up to you to find out, and you'll feel great when you do. Spelunky has produced more moments of elation and awe for me than any other game I've ever played, and I finished Dark Souls.  Listen, you owe it to yourself to play Spelunky. It might be the best game ever made.","hours":402.6,"funny_percent":0.06422018348623854,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Alrighty. Beat Hell & Yama 9 times, Olmec even more. Think it's time to put Spelunky on the shelf, now that I've proven myself it was not a fluke. It's given me great pleasure for dozens upon dozens of hours. Doing casual Hell runs has slowly lost its appeal though. A great rogue-like with tons of replay value, secrets and many goals. Heartily recommend it to everyone. Has a somewhat steep learning curve but the more you invest, the more the game gives back. Dying can be frustrating, disappointing or simply funny. Every now and then after bad runs one can loose his cool and botch up subsequent runs by the second, so it's better to give it a pause. Brute-forcing was not a good tactic for me. Ingeniously well done level generation which almost always makes the game beatable but often will success be directly connected to early loot crates. Not as often as your frequent stupid faults though. Jetpack-Shotgun combo is the supreme and most satisfying way to go but many times you'll have to do without them. Mechanics are at the focal point and beating the game neither the easy or hard way will be possible without mastering them. Once you get the feel of movement, level patterns and the right enemy tactics though, things will become much more manageable. The perfect game for short gaming sessions. Deceptively cute looking, deep and varied platformer. Give it a try.  Farewell Spelunker. May your journeys be filled with gold.","hours":480.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"When the arrow trap triggers from offscreen and ricochets off a wall  only to bounce off the ground and hit you in the face, you realize something profound. Some things are just beyond your control.  Life isn't out to get you it's just randomly generating extremely unfair situations. Kind of like Spelunky. Oh, and I hate this game.   10/10","hours":20.4,"funny_percent":0.4602272727272727,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Murder, theft, kidnapping...how I became addicted to a game whose title doesn’t sound like a throwback 2D platformer.  Spelunky, a game that looks like it was made by Nintendo and sounds like a special move in an adult entertainment production. To an outsider, Spelunky probably looks and seems like another goofy indie game with cartoony graphics and canned gameplay. That assumption couldn’t be further from reality, Spelunky is a brutal, unforgiving game requiring a high degree of skill and patience, while using it’s innocent, unsuspecting art to promote a violent and criminal plot following a degenerate tomb raider who makes Indiana Jones look like a choirboy.  Spelunky is not only one of the best indie games I’ve played, it’s one of the best 2D platformers I’ve played to date (going back as someone who played terrible platformers on the Atari 2600). What makes Spelunky great is it’s addictive, procedural level design that rewards patience and strategy while punishing recklessness, dying is extremely easy so each death serves as a lesson to hopefully teach your dumb♥♥♥♥♥how to navigate for the next playthrough. People with ADD or those who enjoy being guided through games with relatively no resistance (99% of modern games) will have a tough time with this game as they’ll die 20 or 30 times before making it through the first world and will likely rage quit. There are times where Spelunky is so brutal that instead of getting angry, you’ve reached the stage of delirium where you begin to develop a psychotic laugh when you save up 10 hearts, make it to the ‘last’ level, take a safe step to the right, activate an arrow trap, get smashed in the face, get thrown across the level, bounce off 3 walls and then somehow land in a pool of lava even after your carefully planned and executed run up until that moment. At that point, anger is futile, enjoy the hilarity and get your♥♥♥♥♥back to the cave.  Gameplay  In terms of gameplay, Spelunky is a rogue-like where you aim to complete levels across 4 or more worlds while ‘collecting’ treasure, ‘defeating’ monsters and ‘rescuing’ damsels (stealing precious metals, murdering innocent wildlife and kidnapping unsuspecting civilians). The gameplay promotes careful, thought-out movements and actions but the controls are so tight and responsive that you can hold turbo like an idiot (like I normally do) and try to fly across the map while getting every last resource even if it means a tragic and boneheaded death, that’s the allure of Spelunky, like dating a girl fresh out rehab, the potential is there but it’s likely going to end in disaster. With that said, to maximize enjoyment and effectiveness in this game, I’d highly recommend using a controller, preferably the Xbox 360 one, I couldn’t imagine playing this with a keyboard. During your crime-filled adventure, you’ll come across a variety of weapons, items and powerups, because of the procedural nature of the game, you can’t really plan on getting certain items since there’s no guarantee they’ll even show up, randomization does that. It is a double-edged effect however, there are runs where you’ll get more than you can carry; a jetpack, plasma cannon, all the good boots, 15 hearts (my record is 18) and still have to sacrifice some of it if you want to reach certain areas of the game.  Replayability is at the same level as The Binding of Isaac, a game that I dropped over 300 hours into. There’s so much to do in Spelunky that you should easily have hundreds of hours of gameplay, the average ‘run’ takes about 30-40 minutes if you’re taking your time and trying to get as much loot as possible. Games like these are a great change of pace because they aren’t a huge time commitment like most PC games are (looking at you Civ 5) and they allow you to sit back and relax with a controller (although there’s very little relaxing in this game unless you’re on some strong tranquillisers). At writing, I’m about 130 hours in and I finally reached hell for the first time this past week, just to paint a picture of how much time is needed in order to get good enough to beat the whole game. As if the game couldn’t get any better, it also has a deathmatch and co-op mode, which is likely not as big of a deal for PC gamers since it’s only offline (no online co-op does suck, but is a very small issue), still something fun to play if you’re sitting around with some friends and everyone has controllers.  Another gameplay element worth mentioning is destruction, although explosives are relatively hard to come by, when you stock up enough of them you can start to take chunks out of the level to try and access loot. The levels are varied but consistent, you won’t be able to get all of the loot in every level but if you’re resourceful and strategic you should be able to clear out 90% of the content while avoiding death at the end (play the game to find out what I mean). The items are also pretty well crafted, they all have literal uses and as you play the game you’ll realize they have secondary uses. The design choices in Spelunky were really well thought out and are all there to help improve the gameplay, which is all that should matter. When you’re over 100 hours in a game and still discovering cool gameplay mechanics that only make the game experience better, you know the developers put a lot of thought into the design.  Verdict   It’s a shame that a lot of people will never play a game like Spelunky because of their preconceived notions regarding indie games, platformers, colourful artwork, a game that only costs $15 or less (I only paid $4 thanks to a trusty Steam sale), or games that sound like degrading sexual escapades. In any event, it’s your loss if you’re reading this and still are not convinced. If you’re too cheap to buy the game for $15, add it to your wishlist and get it on sale, even if you’re too useless to ever play the game, at least you’ll have supported a developer who if more companies took after we’d have a new era of engaging, thought-provoking games that reward skill and strategy instead of spamming you with ‘achievements’ just for booting the game up while it carries you through the entire experience with no challenge[www.battlefield.com].","hours":176.3,"funny_percent":0.018518518518518517,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Think you know how to move around with wasd in a way that dodges damage? Think you're good at roguelikes? Think this game is going to be easy? Think the quirky, fun and cartoony characters don't know the pain of thousands upon thousands of deaths, none due to old age? WRONG ON ALL COUNTS! Prepare to spend the next thousand hours of your life (with intermittent bathroom, food, and sleep breaks) laughing, raging, and honing your terrible reflexes because if you buy this game (and you WILL buy this game) it will consume you. You will die and die and die. And then you'll die. But for some reason, you'll return and by some twisted part of the human psychology, you'll be having fun. You'll get the achievement: Addicted (play 1000 times) after 5 minutes of playing, and proceed to get them all by whatever means necessary. So you have to kill a red nosed indiana jones a few times. So you might have to sacrifice a few innocent dogs to an evil god of pain. It's worth it. THIS IS SPELUNKY. It's not easy. After 582.6 hours of mashing keys, collecting gold, and racing to the finish, I've beaten the boss 6 times, and the final boss none. I still don't have all the achievements, and I furiously play every day, slaughtering dogs and shopkeepers in every attempt to finish the game. My highscore is a little bit worse than 4000th in the world, and my time is a little better than 7000th in the world. This game is a devotion. An addiction. A lifestyle. This, my friends, is Spelunky.   Want the best game you'll ever play? Want the worst game you'll ever play? Buy spelunky.    // update: at 621.1 hours, the final boss is down. G. fricking. G.","hours":633.7,"funny_percent":0.5666666666666667,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"When I think of games that can have people sinking 250 hours into them, the first things I think of are games like fallout 4 or Elder scrolls, games with massive maps that have almost limitless amounts of things you can do. Spelunky at max has 20 levels. To be such a short game and be able to captivate my attention for this long and still have me coming back for more is not something most games get to do.  This game is fun, but it is beyond hard. This game shouldn't be tagged difficult, it should be tagged nu-uh. Our fat meaty fingers were not meant to be used to the level this games requires. This game laughs at dark souls and calls it a ♥♥♥♥♥. Spelunky will not hold your hand. It will kick you in the♥♥♥♥♥♥every day of every year and laugh in your face. As painful as this game can be there is a beauty to its cruelty. It is so rewarding to finish a complete hell run, knowing you took on one of the hardest games out there and and turned it from♥♥♥♥♥♥kicker to♥♥♥♥♥♥kicked. If you break things when you get mad don't buy this game, you will burn your house down. This game is for anyone who feels modern games are easy. This game will break you down over and over again until you either snap and run back to COD crying or it will harden you until you become some demigod of bossness. I cannot recommend this game to everyone, but if you have read this far I think you will know if you need this game in your life.","hours":299,"funny_percent":0.11320754716981132,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"This game can kill you in so many ways and make you feel dumb about it, it doesn´t matter if you have hundreds of hours of gameplay, know many strats or have already beaten the game, there´s always something new to discover. Do not underestimate the game, you may think it´s easy but it is very challenging, it took me about 700+ runs to beat it for the first time without shortcuts. -This game has a lot of replayability value. -Almost zero bugs/glitches (i have found just two and they are related to the background music, doesn´t affect gameplay and they will be gone in the next level). -Every run is different due to randomly generated levels. -Crazy shopkeepers. -Permadeath.  Definitely worth it 10/10","hours":178.4,"funny_percent":0.05405405405405406,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"What can I say about Spelunky?   I bought this game a while ago, played it for a short amount of time and put it away again. I kept dying, it seemed like they made the difficulty way too hard for a casual looking game.  I picked it up again a few days ago with the determination to get through the first world, to have a proper idea of what the game is about. Now I understand!!  Spelunky looks easy. If you've played it, you'll know it isn't. The great thing is though, there are no cheap deaths. Death comes from player error. There are WTF!? moments, but these are shortly proceeded by newfound knowledge and understanding of a new tactic or strategy. The amount of ways to die in Spelunky, I don't even try to imagine!  This maybe what makes it such a special platformer. With procedural generated levels and the multitude of ways our hero can meet his end, each playthrough feels quite unique. It never feels mundane or like a grind. Any frustration from dying is short-lived and usually accompanied with laughter.  The graphics are lovely and colourful, with a plethora of cute characters to unlock. There's a whole host of tough achievements and a nice variety of catchy soundtracks that compliment it all really well.  This is how to make a platform game. 10/10","hours":15.6,"funny_percent":0.09615384615384616,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Endless hours of entertainment. Even after beating the game, beating the special ending, and unlocking all the achievements, there's still plenty more to do. Add in Sashavol's unbeatable Frozlunky Mod, and you'll never run out of things to do. A must-have for Indie Game fans.","hours":499.2,"funny_percent":0.0967741935483871,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"A superb platformer with rogue-like elements. Behind the cutesy graphics lies a world of randomly-generated levels filled with deadly traps, weapons, monsters, and treasures. You will die more times than you can count; but the game has a strange way of making you come back for more.  Highly recommended if you're a fan of platformers, roguelikes, or challenging games.","hours":39.1,"funny_percent":0.0031545741324921135,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Very well designed torture 2D platforming roguelike. Superficially simple, but actually has lots of surprises in store and random level generation with randomized loot make for lots of replayability, if you get hooked. And to help you get hooked you have daily challenges to compare yourself to friends and community at large. There's also some local co-op if you fancy that (and have someone to play with).  Beware though, this is truly a brutal game and takes heaps of time to master. It's very easy to lose health and rather hard to replenish it. It's actually pretty easy to outright die on some spikes, too, if you're not careful enough, but there's also a time limit to keep you on your toes. You can't simply crawl your way through checkpoints, once you die that's it, you restart from scratch with newly generated levels. That's the whole point of the game though, not to play some story or predefined levels but to continue playing it even if you've beaten it once already, to improve your score, or take less time, or find more secrets, or accomplish some self imposed challenges, or to compare yourself with others on a daily challenge, all that with a differently generated levels each time you play.  I have to confess I played it for several hours (~15) and I haven't even been able to leave the initial few levels. In comparison by that time I killed mom in Binding of Isaac and mothership in FTL (albeit on easy, but still :D). Obviously the underlying genre in those games is different but I think some comparison is still valid. I most likely just suck with torturing 2D platformers. It's still fun though, up to a point however. You can suck only as much before you ask yourself are you willing to spend plenty of time to get better at this game and feel good about it, or just try a different title that isn't so brutally demanding.","hours":15.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Either I am a complete failure, or everyone else is really good at this game.        This game is very difficult.","hours":57.9,"funny_percent":0.5444444444444444,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"The most reliably enjoyable game I've ever played. Still interesting and stimulating after hundreds upon hundreds of games. I basically recommend this to anyone, even if you don't like platformers.","hours":339.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Spelunky is an exquisitely designed hybrid roguelike/platformer that is simple to learn, but very difficult to master. Often a single mistake from certain death, you must depend on your own skills and knowledge to progress through the procedurally generated caves, uncovering the treasures and secrets that lie below. Death comes often, especially to newcomers, but every death is a learning experience that improves your chances of survival in subsequent attempts.  Spelunky is a game that is simultaneously merciless and fair. Even with multitude of threats you'll face, almost every death you experience is preventable and the result of poor judgment or a lack of skill. All of Spelunky's mechanics and enemies follow a persistent and predictable logic, each element a tiny cog in a massive interlocking machine. Learning about the inner workings of Spelunky's world is necessary to venture into the deeper reaches of the caves.  Those that are looking for an easy game to breeze through should look elsewhere, but those that desire a game that will test their skills as well as the speed and accuracy of their decision-making will likely enjoy Spelunky. Like many roguelikes, the initial difficulty is very high, and may be offputting to some, but those that persevere will be rewarded with an incredibly satisfying game that has nigh-infinite replay value and keeps even experienced players on their toes.  Below is a short story inspired by Spelunky, which may give a potential player an idea of how the game plays and what I find so appealing about it.  /----After carrying both the valuable golden idol and the defenseless pug to the exit, I turned back to recover the shotgun that I had left on a perch high above, but partway through my journey, I felt a shiver run down my spine, and the air grew cold. It seemed that I had overstayed my welcome. Seconds later, I spotted the translucent spectre effortlessly slipping through solid wall, approaching me with single-minded determination. Having dealt with this ghost many times before, I was undeterred. I grabbed my shotgun and nimbly weaved my way through the twisted caverns as the sluggish spirit fell behind. However, as I neared the exit, something caught my eye: a lone supply crate sat at the end of a corridor, begging for its contents to be revealed. My desire for treasures overwhelming my senses, I made a dash for the crate, and within it I found a parachute. “Hardly worth the effort”, I muttered as I turned towards the exit, but as soon as I began to make my way back, I realized what a terrible mistake I had made. My unnecessary detour had allowed the ghost I had previously danced around with such confidence to corner me. I scrambled to blow open an escape route, but the walls that surrounded me were too thick, and the fuses on my bombs too long. Realizing the inevitability of my fate, I turned to face the approaching phantom and awaited its deadly embrace...  ...And as quickly as I felt my life being sucked away, I woke up at the cave entrance, no worse for wear. After taking note of my own death in a dusty old journal and etching another tally mark into the nearby stone wall, I journeyed yet again into the mysterious caves below, tightening the grip on my trusty whip as the surrounding rocks and dirt shifted under my feet. “This is the one” I assured myself as I entered an abandoned mine with renewed determination and a newfound respect for the ghost that haunts the caves below. “I just know it.”----/","hours":446.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"There really aren't any words to describe Spelunky except that it is amazing.  Spelunky is a rogue-like platformer where you have to get to the end of the game, but at the same time collect gold, jewels, and gems to score a higher score. Which leads into the leaderboards. With the leaderboards, the game lets you have a friendly competition with your friends, because everyone can compare their high scores. (There's even local coop!)  There's plenty of replayability in the game, as no level is ever the same. The randomized levels paired up with the different challenges that persist in each level extends the replayability even more. Your choices can have a large impact on your survival as well; Damsel is in the wall? Should you use your last bomb to free her? Maybe you should use the bomb to get rid of those pesky snakes first... Different choices can be life and death for you!  I can definitely say that I'm in love with the game. I've played it once on the XBLA and thought nothing of it, but now that I really got into it, I've fallen in love. From the arrow traps, to the annoying bats, the game has a very charming feel. Even the art is adorable. All in all, the game is very original and not just another platformer game.  The gameplay mechanics are very smooth. I cannot see anyone putting this game down in the near future. It's just that fun. Why are you still reading this? Go purchase Spelunky now!  Happy Spelunking!","hours":43.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"One of the greatest games I have ever played. I have uninstalled it several times only because it stops me from playing other games. It is that good.","hours":277.7,"funny_percent":0.10714285714285714,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Spelunky is now my favorite rogue-like game. It’s charming, funny, polished, challenging, and incredibly rewarding when things work out for you. There’s tons of awesome secrets, and lots of hilarious situations that can occur. For example: You pick up a golden idol from a trapped pedestal, and a huge boulder rolls across the screen demolishing everything. You get away safely, but this boulder smashes into an item shop, and so the shopkeeper goes berserk, grabs his shotgun, and chases after you. The boulder also destroyed a nearby temple and♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥off a goddess, who unleashes a horde of spiders on you. All of the different entities in the game have so many ways of interacting with each other that the game never runs out of new experiences. There’s a good variety of items and powerups, and optional hidden levels, which also make each run very different.  Spelunky does get frustratingly hard at times though. (Damn those spike traps in the jungle area!) If they toned down the difficulty a tiny bit, I think the game would be perfect.","hours":22,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Spelunky is a hard (but fair) rogue-like platformer with endless replayability. Simple but addictive yet very challenging, Every death you have will seem unfair at first but can be avoided. The first time you beat the boss it's one of the most satisfying things you can do in a platform game and when you beat the secret boss you will feel like a platforming god. But the challenge doesn't stop there, you have no gold runs, speed runs, daily challengs and if your a real masochist you can try to do an eggplant run. One of my favourite games of all time and easily worth full price.  10/10 would recommend to anyone looking 4 a good challenge or a great platformer.","hours":233,"funny_percent":0.09090909090909091,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Death by spikes. Death by arrow trap. Death by boulder trap. Death by monster pot. Death by bat. Death by big spider. Death by bat. Death by falling chest. Death by self-flung rock. Death by shopkeep. Death by self-flung rock. Death by fall damage, bat, then rebounded into a nearby spike pit. Death by a shotgun flown halfway across the map due to a secluded bomb explosion that YOU SWORE YOU WERE FAR ENOUGH AWAY FROM TO NOT GET HIT BY AT ONLY 1 HEALTH.  And yet I bought the game twice.","hours":170.6,"funny_percent":0.01702127659574468,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Let's see...   * Great platforming. * Fluid controls.  * Very well-made sprites. * Charming scenarios. * Good replay value.  * Hard as hell, unforgiving, unfair and rough... And I love it.   I couldn't ask for more c:<","hours":48.6,"funny_percent":0.1276595744680851,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"What could be said about Spelunky that hasn't been said yet? Yes, it's very hard. But yes, it's one of the most enjoyable games I've ever played. Thanks to its randomly generated levels, the replayability is almost infinite. What's absolutely delightful about Spelunky is that it's one of those \"perfect\" games. That means that you'll always know why you lost a game, and how you could improve. There are hundreds of tiny tips and tricks to know and discover, and the \"secret\" levels are always a joy to go through.  Spelunky can please the most hardcore players, but it also allows a more casual gameplay. People will either want to complete the game as fast as possible, or with the biggest amount of gold, or simply try and beat the final boss. In the end, what's the most amazing thing about this game is that you won't necessarily play it for its entended purpose (beat the game, deliver damsels, get treasures..), but rather for the journey you'll embark whenever you press Start.  Absolutely amazing game, I couldn't recommend it enough.","hours":73.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Spelunky. It's one of my favourite games, ever. Spelunky's immensely fun, some of the most fun I've ever had playing a video game. But that's not the only reason why it sits proudly atop my list of favourite video games like a smug fowl. It's soundtrack fits it like a climbing glove, the bright colours of this beauty visually dazzle you and it's charm is clear to behold. Some of the skill, precision and timing involved in perfecting your spelunking is beyond me. Like any rogue-like, however, death is always just around the corner. A run can go from you feeling unkillable, to the exact opposite. It's to be expected though, and for this reason, your success is amplified when you do strike gold and conquer this piece. Spelunky is a vibrant, mysterious and challenging rogue-like platformer that easily provides many, many hours of genuinely fun gameplay, on the Playstation version, I've succumbed to 15,000+ deaths in an attempt to rise victorious. This masterpiece is a definate recommendation to anyone even loosely thinking about picking it up, it's more-or-less a perfect rogue-like platformer, and game for that matter.","hours":29.3,"funny_percent":0.10344827586206896,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"I am addicted.  Challenging but fair, secrets to explore, every game is a new experience, a different kinda soundtrack and most of all, it is so much fun fun fun. ","hours":683.7,"funny_percent":0.06779661016949153,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Still playing the dailies even after 2 years. This one never gets boring.","hours":569.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"I don't know what the shopkeepers are wasting their time selling things in some old cave when they all could qualify for the Olympics.","hours":177.5,"funny_percent":1.8518518518518519,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Spelunky will make you addicted in a strange way. You will die a lot and will keep coming back. To succeed, stay alert all the time and don't rush. This is a slow game that requires patience.","hours":16.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"A mad dash through a death trap laden cave to fill your pockets with enough gold and gems to make a rich duck envious! One of the greatest rogue-lites ever. Great setting. More secrets then you could stuff into a undisclosed goverment warehouse. Smooth as butter controls. Amazing items. A fun sense of humor. A great sense of design and a brutal difficulty that keeps you just asking for more!","hours":80,"funny_percent":0.09375,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Summary: Spelunky is rouge-like that has randomly generated levels. It has a plethora of items, enemies, and level types. It's a fairly challenging game, which can be played by yourself or with up to 3 others. However, the co-op mode is bad since all players are forced on the same screen. Overall this games comes highly recommended from me because of its difficulty and replayability.  The Good: Solid controls. Whether you are using a controller or keyboard, the controls feel very nice and there is no input lag. Randomly generated levels. Every level in Spelunky is randomly generated, making it very fun with high replayability. No level feels the same. The levels generate nicely, not once has there been a time where the exit was blocked or something else was wrong. Daily Challenge The Daily Challenge is a randomly generated level that is the same for everyone. It is different everyday and can only be played once that day. That way everyone has the experience. Scores are recorded on a leader board. This keeps the game interesting after you've played it a lot and gives a reason to come back. Lots of items and enemies. Plenty of items and enemies are included in the game. There are some that are only found in certain levels, and others you'll see every run. Also, there are unlockable and playable characters hidden in the game that you can find. Level variety. There are multiple different level themes: mines, forest, ice caves and the temple to name a few. There are also several hidden worlds with their own themes that you can find. Also, some levels have different 'feels', which add different layouts and mechanics to the level. Difficulty. Spelunky is a very balanced game. It has just the right difficulty where you will always blame yourself for failing, and start another run because this time you will do better. It may seem unfair at first, but after playing several times you will understand the mechanics better and how to fix your mistakes. Graphics. The HD graphics that Spelunky uses are absolutely beautiful and fit the feel of the game nicely. Deathmacth. The deathmatch co-op mode has plenty of different levels, which can be unlocked by playing the main game. It is a highly entertaining mode, although the bots are a bit dumb at times. The Bad: The ghost. After spending exactly 2 minutes and 30 seconds in a level, a (basically) invulnerable ghost will appear. It will kill you immediately if it comes in contact with you. Personally I do not mind this, but I put it in the bad section because it seems to annoy a lot of new players. Co-op. In Spelunky, you have the option to do a run with up to three other players. The downfall of co-op is that every player shares the same screen. There is no split-screen. This can cause many issues such as a player falling off the screen, forcing players to go the same speed, and more. Off-screen occurrences. Sometimes things that happen off-screen, such as a poisonous snake spitting on a shop keep, can ruin an entire run. This is obviously not the players fault and can be very disappointing when it is the cause of your failure. ","hours":124.9,"funny_percent":0.15789473684210525,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"It took me just shy of 70 hours, multiple reinstalls, and a few days at the therapist to finally be able to finish a hell run of Spelunky.[puu.sh]  It was worth every goddamn second I spent with it at the end. This game is amazing. If you like challenging platformers, play it.","hours":74.5,"funny_percent":0.21739130434782608,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"I have always loved Spelunky, its a great Rougue-like, platformer, and all around game. I have put hundreds of hours into Spelunky classic, and even have a copy of Spelunky \"HD\" on console as well as Steam now! Spelunky is one of my favorite indie games and I highly recommend it to anyone who is a fan of the aforementioned genres.","hours":44.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"You thought Dark Souls was a challenge? BWAHAHAHAHAHAHAH no","hours":32.2,"funny_percent":1.4183006535947713,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"A modern masterpiece in 2d platforming. Loveable character/creature designs as well.   I am eagerly awaiting the novelization.  ","hours":140.3,"funny_percent":0.04878048780487805,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"I'm clocking in hours that no man should ever clock in on this game. Do you enjoy restarting after 30/40 minutes of work because a flying spiked cube decided to go your direction at mach 5? This is the game for you.","hours":867.3,"funny_percent":0.8666666666666667,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"It's like a dog, a dog you love very much, that one day starts to uncontrollably poo everywhere. You love that dog. That dog is your dog. You can't put the dog down. Therefore you live with the dog. Continue to play with the dog. Clean the dog and feed it. The dog is this game.","hours":296.1,"funny_percent":0.014598540145985401,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"There's not much else to be said that the store page can't already truthfully tell you. This game does pretty much everything right in the areas that matter most. It sounds great, looks great, plays fantastic, and is surprisingly deep (no pun intended). If you want something you can just hop into and play for a little while (or a longer extended stay), this will satisfy that need easily.","hours":70,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"This review is mainly for the co-op mode. I make this distinction early because, surprisingly, it is very different to the single-player. Gameplay-wise it's more or less the same, but it feels very, very different.   This game supports co-op but I believe it's best played single player. This is because the screen (assuming you are playing same-screen local co-op) follows the leader. The screen doesn't accomodate two players very well, as the screen will MOVE WITH the leader as the leader runs and jumps around, thus making it very difficult to control and keep track of your character if you're not the leader. Not only this, but if you're not the leader, you can literally disappear from the screen, at which point it gives you a few seconds before you DIE. This is incredibly frustrating as the name of the game is platforming, and PRECISE controls are ESSENTIAL in the genre.   It doesn't feel like two player co-op, but more like the second person is tagging along. If you've played the likes of \"Enter The Gungeon\", you'll know what I mean. The second player is at quite a huge disadvantage, and yes they can contribute, but they're considerably weaker and more often than not actually hinder your movement and progress. Friendly fire is also ALWAYS ON (this is not necessarily a good or bad thing, as it can be hilarious but also very annoying) and in a game where you're jumping around and dodging spikes that can kill you in one hit (yes the spikes are insta death) and chucking bombs that fling you across the screen it's definitely something to consider (I personally like this, as it adds a level of challenge and teamwork). Also, you can't save the game (this is important) and if you want to complete a full playthrough you're going to have to start from level 1 ALL THE WAY THROUGH to the end (Lost Castle, Enter The Gungeon). You can find the \"tunnel man\" who will let you skip levels, but this actually puts you at a huge disadvantage because going through the levels allows you to stock up on necessary items such as climbing ropes and bombs, so ultimately you have to start from level 1 if you want any chance at beating the game.   I may be a little too harsh on this game, and feel free to comment if you believe it to be so. It is a good game, with precise controls and simple to learn but hard to master mechanics. There are also a variety of items that change the way you approach a level, and you must be meticulate and methodic when running around to collect as much money as possible to buy items. You'll be stacked with gold if you're quick and smart, but it's not easy or generous by any means.  I think it's unfair for me to give this a bad review because I thoroughly enjoyed this game, so for the sake of this review (I review games for couples, so naturally the co-op mode is what I'm here to review) I will give two different verdicts.   Single Player: 83/100 Cooperative Mode: 73/100  PS follow \"Convert Your Significant Other!\" or CoYoSiOt, my Steam Curator page, if you're interested in finding good games with an emphasis on cooperative play and accessibility to convert your significant other! Does your loved one complain about your gaming habits? Says you spend too much time and money on steam? Worry not! Follow my page and I guarantee you'll both be spending twice as much time and money on gaming than ever before! Everybody wins! You win, your lover wins, and Steam wins!","hours":24.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"In twenty-five years, when you think of classic video games, you'll think Spelunky. It is a fusion of the genre defining games of yester years, with mechanics and visuals that will stand the test of time. It's a simple concept. Get your character to the end of a level. What happens in between your starting point and exit are the moments that will have you yearning for just one more attempt. At first, the game is presented as a deep mystery, but after many trial and errors, you will slowly become the master of it's secrets.  What initally feels like clumsy controls, and unfair gameplay eventually reveals itself to be much more than that. At your peak, you'll find yourself exploring the worlds randomly generated caves with precision, all well collecting gems as if you were pac-man. Completing the game is a hurdle in itself. But once you do, you'll only discover that there are more mysteries in the world of Spelunky.  This games magnum opus though comes from what at first glance seems to be unappealing and daunting. The daily challenge. Every player is given the same random world, with only one chance. Even once you've grown comfortable with Adventure mode and your skills as a spelunker, you suddenly have an audience, and your every move counts. There will be times you make mistakes from the desire of the seven sins, but you'll always have tomorrow to prove yourself again.  There is no real way to explain Spelunky's tragicomedy nature, you just have to discover it for yourself. It is definitely the type of game you need to invest yourself in, or you'll find yourself empty handed and frustrated. There aren't many games that are collectively considered one of the greatest. Spelunky without a doubt, is one of them.","hours":472.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"This game's randomization system is so well done that even after dozens of hours of playing it feels fresh. This is an extraordinary platformer with tight controls, little to no bugs, great game design and appealing art style. It's a must try for every platformer/roguelike gamers out there.  PS. Note that this game is so ♥♥♥♥ing challenging and sometimes even unfair. You will hate this game. Then you'll love it again. Then you'll hate it yet again and it'll go on like that... But in the end you'll have so much fun.","hours":83.6,"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"I'm informed by Steam I have yet to review the game I have by a factor of five more hours played than any of my other heavily played games. Spelunky is the game that just keeps on giving. And giving. And just when you thought after 500+ hours you'd seen it all, it shows you something new. Consistently.   It's a fantastic platformer, giving Mario and other classics a run for their money. But the random level design, single life, and items that change how the game is played keep things fresh every time you start a run. Add in daily runs and comparing your scores to a leader board, as well as finding secret levels, alternate endings, and defeating the crazy denizens of the world and this could be the last game you ever buy.   And right now it's $3. No excuses.","hours":610.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"This is my game of the forever. I've actually never beaten it. I put hundreds of hours in on Xbox 360. I don't care about beating it. The pure fun of playing it is enough for me. It controls perfectly and the way the systems combine are a joy to watch and interact with.","hours":24.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"I'm clocking in hours that no man should ever clock in on this game. Do you enjoy restarting after 30/40 minutes of work because a flying spiked cube decided to go your direction at mach 5? This is the game for you.","hours":867.3,"funny_percent":0.8666666666666667,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"More death than Dark Souls, more damsels than Mario, more torture than The Binding of Isaac and more fun than all of them put together!","hours":140.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}