{"funny_percent":0.022187004754358162,"helpful_percent":0.788846676690651,"review":"I grew up playing Harvest Moon with my mom and it is one of my fondest memories. She would always buy me the new one for Christmas, and we would play it all day, filling notebooks full of recipes and discussing which person we hoped to marry. Although Stardew Valley has unmistakable similarities to Harvest Moon, it is a masterpiece in it's own right, one that is very dear to my heart after all those years playing with my mum.   Stardew Valley is complex and simple, heartwarming and detailed. It's complicated enough that so many hours later I still haven't completed most of the achievements or befriended most of the townsfolk, but it's simple and easy enough that I play it almost every night on the couch after work.   Concerned Ape has programmed a masterpiece; his story is just as heartwarming as the story he created. I anticipate each new release and I can't wait to see how far he takes this wonderful game. I rarely give games a perfect score, but this certainly deserves a ten out of ten.","hours":253.4}
{"funny_percent":0.048025613660619,"helpful_percent":0.8329585725772739,"review":"I spent three years building up hype, and I was still blown away.  If you enjoyed Harvest Moon, Rune Factory or Animal Crossing - then get this. It captures all the same things that made those games great, and it's the perfect game to play either casually or seriously. There are so many different ways to earn money and they're all developed and fun, the hardest part is choosing which one to spend your time doing.  The progression curve in the game is fantastic too. Every day you'll feel like you're making progress but there's still always something to work towards and you won't 'beat it' after a couple of hours earning as much money as possible, as there's always something to spend your money on. Even after 20 hours of playing, I feel like I'm nowhere near the endgame, and I could easily see myself playing through again and doing things differently. I'm even doing a playthrough on YouTube and the progress feels dramatically different even in its early stages.  I'm easily disappointed by games, so you can imagine my surprise when I was so impressed by a game made by one person. Congratulations, ConcernedApe, you've made one of the best games I've ever played.","hours":60.6}
{"funny_percent":0.0380952380952381,"helpful_percent":0.895959240111259,"review":"This is an unsurprisingly comforting game. As a die hard Harvest Moon fan, I was searching out for a similar experience with more content and less boundaries, and low and behold, I struck gold with Stardew Valley. This is a seriously impressive game, and gets even more impressive as every new moment unfolds and you realize this game was made single handedly by ConcernedApe. Regardless of the 2-D graphics, you're still immersed in a very whole and rich community of in-depth NPCs and love interests. It incorporates all relationship opportunities whether you're a male looking for a wife, or a husband. The game does not solely revolve around farming either, so there is something for everyone whether it be mining, fishing, or making as many friends as possible. Within the first few hours of picking up this game, I was \"home,\" and that's hard for game creators to do.","hours":527.5}
{"funny_percent":0.026515151515151516,"helpful_percent":0.9180540261607586,"review":"Stardew Valley is a fantastic game and it deserves to be played for an infinite number of hours. I will recommend this game to anyone without any doubt, and in this review, I will try to explain why this game should be played and enjoyed.  My Progress[i.imgur.com]  1. Story Well the story is quite simple: you are a hard-working person who is employed by a big corporate firm, but you are starting to get flooded with work. Your grandpa has recently died and left you a typed letter which you can open when you are most in need. You think this is the time and you open the letter, whereby your grandpa tells you that when a certain part of life comes you need a change in order to feel normal again. In this case he invites you to go to his farm in the valley which is now unattended.   2. Gameplay The game offers a huge amount of gameplay mechanics which are very nicely implemented into the game. You have chiefly 6 gameplay mechanics: Farming, Fishing, Mining, Foraging, Combat and Seasons. In my opinion farming is the main focus of the game; you can plant crops, water, protect and harvest them. They are your main source of income. The variety of crops is huge, and since the game has 4 seasons, there are crops which only grow in particular season, while other crops can grow for consecutive seasons.  Picture of the farm durring Autumn[ http]  - Fishing is quite hard depending on how much time you want to invest in it. Again affect the types of fish you can catch. Catching fish was my main priority in my first hours in the game and my main source of money. It’s quite hard to make money out of fishing, but I found out how to later. You can find treasures while fishing so keep that in mind. - Mining is good for when you get bored of fishing or doing stuff on your farm. It’s very interesting and after couple of visits to the mines you will be planning how many levels you are going to do in 1 day. In the mines you are going to find all kind of items, like minerals, geodes (which can be opened by the local blacksmith)*, and stones which can be used in crafting other items. There are quite a few types of monsters located in the mines. Depending on how deep you are in the mines, monsters differ in damage done to you and how long you need to attack them to defeat them.  - Foraging is focused on chopping down wood and harvesting wild fruits, and foraging items. Of course I’m not covering the other gameplay mechanics in detail because there’s really A LOT. It’s like trying to explain how life works to someone from another planet and doesn’t know how planet Earth is like. There are more mechanics like cooking, crafting various items, the valley’s own social community, quest lines which are quite large in number, community center which needs to be rebuilt (by you), local museum which needs new artifacts, books and minerals to be donated. There is a ton of stuff to be done in the game. In order to become even remotely close of completing the game you need to invest a lot of hours into the game, which is nice.   3. Character customization and selecting farm type Before the game starts you need to “create” your character by selecting a vast amount of characteristics: skin colour, type of clothes, colour of the clothes, facial hair (for males), hair type, etc. The game offers a lot of variety for your character - you can create a pretty normal character or a very strange looking one.  There are also a couple of farm types or layouts you need to choose from. Each has its own pros and cons. I went with the forest type which offers more wood but it limits the space of your farm where you can plant crops. I think there is a farm type which is very hardcore but I can’t speak from experience.  4. Soundtrack The game has a spectacular soundtrack and I absolutely adore it. It’s more than 2 hours long which is quite long for an indie game. The music is always right on spot and gives you a relaxing feeling while playing. I always love when the game and the soundtrack are actually “talking” to each other, and complement one another perfectly.  5. Secrets (no spoilers). This game starts slow with you working at the farm but that’s just the tip of the iceberg. You will be amazed at how many things you can do and find in this game.  Super rare secret event[i.imgur.com]  6. Stardew valley’s wiki page and Look up anything mod. Wiki page is your best friend in this game; it’s a life saver. It helped me so many times when looking for things I could never learn inside the game. I honestly don’t know how you are supposed to find anything without this wiki page. Now while I was play Stardew I had like 20+ tabs open on my browser and all of them were wiki pages and I was constantly alt tabbing. It was getting frustrating after 80+ hours of doing it. One day I looked at Stardew’s subreddit and saw a guy sharing a similar experience with 20+ tabs open, and another dude sharing about a mod where you can do all the wiki related stuff without alt tabbing. Well the mod is awesome, you simply click F1 when you are hovering over something with your cursor and a window with info pops up. It’s very useful but some people are calling it a “cheat”, though I don’t think so. There are also mods for finding artifacts but then that’s really cheating.  Link for the mod[www.nexusmods.com]  7. Collectables They are hard, really hard. You have a special section in your in-game menu dedicated to tracking your progress and seeing what have you collected so far. One tab for the general items (crops, foraged items, monster loot, crops and animal products) which shows you the types and quantities of crops you have sold. Another tab for fishing shows all types of fish in-game. A tab for minerals that can be obtained from opening geodes and breaking stones in the mines, or by unlocking treasures while fishing. One tab for Artifacts - they are probably the hardest part of the game, since they are kind of randomly generated. The grind for them is real. Final tab is for cooking, which shows every recipe you’ve cooked. Even if you somehow found a complete meal, you will need to actually cook it in order for it to pop up in the list. *********************************************************************************************************** Sadly I've reach Steam's review maximum characters and I can't post the whole reveiw at once. I even try to split it in half, the first half here and the rest in the comments but it's not going to work. So I've used external site where I post reviews as well and I will kindly ask you to go there and see the rest. There are like 3 more points remaining of the reveiw which are very interesting in my opinion. Also there you will see how screenshots are implemented in the review way better than Steam. Again I'm very devastated by that I can't post the whole reveiw here and I probably will lose many readers like that sorry T_T. LINK--> http://backlog-deepness.rhcloud.com/posts/obnonjl","hours":129.8}
{"funny_percent":0.09877175025588536,"helpful_percent":0.9623329409127859,"review":"This is a game that I have been looking forward to for at least 2 and a half years. I have wanted to have a game on the PC that had the elements of harvest moon (for the little bit I played of it), Animal crossing (<3) and Rune factory. I was super excited when I was approached by Leth (publishing manager at Chucklefish) at the beginning of December to help him and ConcernedApe (developer of the game) with bug testing and QA. 400+ hours later (off steam and on steam), I still love the game.   Farming. The farming is fantastic. It is to me one of the main elements of the game, and it's just a joy. Being able to design your farm any way you want it... yes please. Planning out what to buy every season, where to plant them, on top of the thrill of when you can harvest and reap on the gold... it's so enjoyable and addictive.   Fishing. The fishing is outstanding. From playing WoW and Runescape.. or any game with fishing, the fishing in Stardew Valley is so much fun. At first, the fishing is challenging, but as you progress your skill, you become a pro in no time.  Mining and combat. Mining and combat is incredible. Going deeper into the mines can be tough, but if you're prepared with your food and weapon in hand, you can fend off the creatures and get your sweet ore/minerals/gems that you want to bring back to your house and possibly hoard. (Hi, I'm Bexy, and i'm a hoarder.)   Social. Social interactions are great. Being able to become friends with the people in the town, and eventually being able to get into relationships with people and having a family with them.. what's not to like about that? And what's great is that it gives great replayability because you can have different saves with different spouses! The backstory for each of the characters too is so in depth and well thought out, you will be silly if you don't shed a tear maybe once or twice.   Main story. The actual main story is well rewarding, and once you \"complete\" it, you can still continue on your adventures and farming life with no problems, hell you might even discover new things afterwards, I sure as hell did!   Yes, I was a tester for the game. Yes, I have played for ridiculous amounts of hours. It may feel like i'm being a bit overzealous with this. However you have to remember, I was a tester. I tested the crap out of every aspect with this game, even though there were massive game breaking bugs, errors, glitches, crashes. I still love this game. I reported many a bug, and ConcernedApe was quick to fix them.   And that's the thing, not only is the game amazing, the developer is too. ConcernedApe works around the clock to make sure that bugs are fixed in quick time in order for us to have an amazing experience with this game. And that's true. The experience that you have with this game IS amazing.   Minutes playing turn into hours. Hours turn into \"oh no it's time to sleep\". You will forget about time. You will forget about sleep. You will forget that dinner was about 5 hours ago but you couldn't' remember because you were too busy trying to fight off 12 bats that were clobbering you inside the mines while trying to gather that 1 diamond waaaaay in the back.   So yes, I without a shadow of a doubt 150% recommend this game to anyone that wants to \"escape\" for days on end with what I am classifying as my #1 Game of 2016.","hours":673.4}
{"funny_percent":0.0819935691318328,"helpful_percent":0.8000039215836277,"review":"There isn't much to be said that hasn't already been said for this amazing game if you enjoyed the classic harvest moon type games you will absolutely 100% enjoy this. The game play seems fresh and fun even after clocking in over 60 hours, You won't want to quit, “Just 1 more day” then you realize that turned into 5 days and it's 4am and you have to sleep sometime.   This game, takes the old harvest moon concepts and tosses in a bit of Rune factory and a sprinkle of animal crossing leaving you with a sensational experience. Each day brings something fresh, There is over 25 different Npc's to interact with each day and each one brings their own charm and dialogue options depending on if you take the time to build up your friendships.  Your farm can be whatever you make it, You design what it looks like, how it runs, what you plant and what animals you choose to raise. The fishing can be a bit difficult to begin with but very rewarding and relaxing once you get the hang of it. On days you want something a bit different you can hop into the mine and find some rare gems, ores and minerals, Some that you can donate to the game's huge museum or use to upgrade your tools!   I can't praise this game enough, if your on the fence about purchasing this game or you think you should wait for a sale, Don't wait! This game was made by a single developer who deserves every single penny for all the obvious hard work and dedication. So go and farm your butt off!","hours":116.7}
{"funny_percent":0.01928346696437633,"helpful_percent":0.8188838704717392,"review":"**NOTE: This review will constantly update to accomadate any new changes in my opinion, updates, etc.**   INTRODUCTION  Stardew Valley.  I've heard a lot of things about this game. A lot of extremely positive things.  And I was doubtful. Was Stardew Valley really that good? I was afraid that people were just giving it attention because they didn't actually know what a good game was. And as insulting as it may sound, in my defense, uhhm....   Before buying the game I hadn't really seen what it looked like, or knew what it was about. I just knew that it was published by the same company, Chucklefish, that had developed Starbound. I had loved Starbound.. So I was playing completely spoiler free. Haven't watched any videos, no tips & tricks, just the information of a billion recommended reviews stuffed into my head.  So I bought Stardew Valley, and had pretty high expectations. If a game received THAT much popularity, it should be seriously good, right?   WHAT STARDEW VALLEY IS  Plop. Into the world of Stardew Valley.   You completely start from the bottom, trailing after a tragedy and responsibility that's struck. A farm, barely any money, and the mystery of a town left in your hands. Whew. That's really a lot when you think about it.   Boy, did I NOT know what I was getting myself into.   At first, it was kind of boring. And any new game you buy will always be like that. The beginning's all new and immersive, and the middle... kind of leaves you stuck. And that's one of the most challenging parts for a lot of people: getting through that middle. When you begin, you spot all the challenges you'll face, which is daunting, because you can instantly tell: you're going to have to freaking work hard to be a master at this game.  The thing with Stardew Valley, It's all about exploration and management. Discovering and figuring out secrets and a beautiful story was amazing. Creative mechanics and powerful creativity had combined to produce a fabulous well-formed game that leaves a sweet taste in your mouth, and I'm going to tell you right now... it's totally addicting.   I bought the game a few days ago, and literally have played it all day since. I've NEVER done that with a game before. I found myself as a kid in a candy shop, gaping at all the different flavors, and being able to savor them all. And now, in Year 3 of the game.. I still have a lot more to discover. The creator, ConcernedApe, was brilliant when coding this game. He created all the aspects of Stardew Valley, and it took him ONLY four years. How? I've seen games that took ten years to develop... and they still had less than Stardew Valley. (Thank you, commenters!)   PLAYING  Compared to others, I've only played around 80 hours of the game thus far. Buy Stardew Valley. You really won't regret it. This game is beautiful. The music is whimsically lifting, and the soundtrack is wonderful. It's a work of art. You will find yourself falling in love with the characters, and the daily routine of being a farmer who restores the life around people, and who changes everyone for the better.   Let me tell you this right now: the game rewards for the hard-working.  And you might be thinking: \"what in the world do I mean by that?\"   I literally mean what I say. Stardew Valley is a game where you really have to manage things, yet, it allows you to explore the whole art of it. Work hard as you play the game, and there are sweet rewards. And I'm talking about rewards sweeter than all the candy in that candy shop.  Here's the thing: you can take two routes with Stardew Valley. You can either take the money route and become rich and miss half the game, or you can immerse yourself in exploring the town and what the game has to offer, but with also missing the point that Stardew is a management farming game.  Or, you can successfully find the balance between both. But how?  Stardew Valley allows you to store multiple accounts, which is fantastic. I recommend exploring with your first account, and learning the ropes. You seriously won't know anything yet, and will be like \"OMFG\" when you figure out there's a way that makes things one hundred times easier. After that, create a second account, and start figuring out farm management and what the game has to offer. I thought I was pretty boss with the second account, but I realized I could get a whole lot more with a third account since I now knew shortcuts and everything. So I created a third account, and successfully balanced management and exploration. Now I'm left in a spot where I can successfully thrive, and only continue to grow.   THE PROS  - Enchanting music that sings as you play  - A simple yet fun art design that you can't help but fall in love with  - Characters whom capture your heart  - A shambled town that begins to thrive  - Hidden secrets that you can't help but want to keep discovering  - Amazing challenges that leave you wanting more  - The awe of wandering through an amazingly formed game  - Brilliant originality, which is incredibly difficult to find  - A storyline that changes your perspective beautifully  - Lots of fun, and I mean lots.  - Mods created by the community to make your game more fun and immersive- however, I play without mods.   THE CONS  - As I said, the game rewards you for hard work. But only for hard work. It can be a grueling process, but it is extremely profitable. Those who don't like putting effort into a game won't enjoy Stardew Valley as much as other games.  - Time. Stardew Valley takes a lot of time to play through. It's a game you thoroughly have to enjoy and adventure out on.  - Repetitive. The game can be grueling. To reach certain goals you have to go through processes that you will SERIOUSLY hate. But, in the end, it's definitely worth the labor.   PLACES TO IMPROVE  **NOTE: Some of these \"improvements\" may have spoilers, however, none of them reveal any actual information about the game and what happens, as it is common knowledge and will really not spoil anything. This category talks about bugs and things that need to be fixed. So if you haven't bought Stardew Valley, it's not too concerning, but you may read it if you wish.  - According to MasterBlade's review, there was a crash that deleted all his/her's progress of 61 hours. I haven't come across this problem, yet.  - In the Egg Festival during the Egg Hunt, there is an egg in the right corner of a bush next to Mayor Lewis' house. When you try to click on the egg, Jas' dialogue pops up, even though she has already walked off-screen. I find this annoying, as the triggered text prevents you from moving, and thus, lose the Egg Hunt. (I lost once because of that. Not a big deal, but it may be for new players.)  - In the Egg Festival there is also an out-of-bounds glitch. If you go to the top area (where you would walk to the Community Center) and walk up to the very top barrier (to where you can't walk forward anymore). Then, go left, and you're out-of-bounds!   WHY IT'S JUST STELLAR  Stardew Valley offers a lot of things, and has changed the lives of many people. Perhaps in peace, wonder, open-mindedness, the game gives a lot. But I have one thing that's been bothering me for a long time... How in the damn world did one single person spit out a freaking awesome game?  Even though it's a farming game, which is commonly found everywhere, it's original with its own spins. It's extremely difficult to find a game that has such a captivating message that's been developed so well. Stardew Valley is a lot of fun and awe, and it really draws a blank in your mind.  Buy Stardew Valley. At first, it might seem boring... but keep playing. Trust me, the candies are still sweet. And they really only get sweeter.","hours":76.7}
{"funny_percent":0.040268456375838924,"helpful_percent":0.8747511935635088,"review":"I'm genuinely impressed an indie game of this scale made by one guy isn't stuck in an eternal early access, but is instead provided as the full package right off the bat. This is how it was done a decade ago, and this is how it should still be done.","hours":48.3}
{"funny_percent":0.054140127388535034,"helpful_percent":0.760461568831049,"review":"This game is chill af. You can listen to music, radio or podcast on background while playing it and relax at 100%. Build the story at your own pace, take your time to discover the town and decide what do you like to do. Multiplayer is coming, so meanwhile try it now because is worth it.","hours":208}
{"funny_percent":0.04833512352309345,"helpful_percent":0.895972850967906,"review":"Overview  Stardew Valley is a game that borrows heavily from similar titles in the Harvest Moon series. You start out in a rural town with nothing but a dilapidated house and crop fields that are more akin to the wilderness than a place to grow vegetables. The game is simple in its understanding: build a farm, make profits, live your life. What the game allows you to do makes it so much more layered. You're left with the freedom to explore the town, its residence, mold your farm into whatever you want it to be and on your own time. Sure, there are events to attend, festivals to see, men/women to romance and marry, kids to have, buildings to construct, fish to catch and weird little slimes to slay (Dragon Warrior, anyone?), but how and when you do those things is up to you.   In essence, the game offers you very similar things to do as a Harvest Moon game does: Build and upgrade your farm, plant crops, upgrade tools, mine in the never-ending dungeon for precious ore, go fishing, romance and get married...etc. While some of your old favorites are back, new aspects have been introduced as well, but I won't spoil those in this review. Let's just say there's a nice story that evolves over time.  The freedom to do as you please is what makes this game, and Harvest Moon in general, so enjoyable. It's a chance to mellow out, play at your own pace and still enjoy everything the game has to offer. What Stardew Valley does, it does right. It's charming, cute and feels rewarding, even when all you're doing is cuttings weeds. It doesn't pull any punches or try to be something its not; the developer had a goal in mind and Stardew Valley is a reflection of just that. You can feel the effort, the time and the devotion that went into this game over the years. Stardew Valley is a gem and worth looking at. If you loved Harvest Moon, you'll love Stardew Valley.  To date, Stardew Valley is a single player game, though the developer as mentioned some form of co-op or multiplayer availability in the future.   Pros  Character Customization - Always good, always wanted.  Visuals - In the style of the SNES. They're colorful detailed and a delight. Game Pace - Fast, slow, or somewhere in the middle. It's your call to make. Content - There is a lot more to do than I first imagined. There are many hidden layers inside the game as you progress the storyline.  Cons  Combat - It's a tad basic since that isn't the core of the gameplay. A single hack/n slash mechanic Citizens - I'd love to see more citizens (even temporary ones during the year) come and go to make the town feel more \"alive\"   Overall, Stardew Valley is a pleasure. I haven't put a ton of time into it (yet), but I easily see that happening. It's fun, lighthearted and addictive. As I said earlier in this review, if you've ever played Harvest Moon, you'll enjoy Stardew Valley. It's worth checking out and I highly recommend it. This will easily become one of my most played games on my list. You won't be disappointed, so check it out!","hours":27.7}
{"funny_percent":1.0878136200716846,"helpful_percent":0.7419104348032682,"review":"Stardew Valley lets me live out my sexual fantasies of having a house, a job, and someone who cares about me. 11/10","hours":244.5}
{"funny_percent":0.8379629629629629,"helpful_percent":0.725663647085632,"review":"Just one more day and ill go to sleep.  (27 hours later)  Just one more day and ill go to sleep.","hours":95.7}
{"funny_percent":1.0333333333333334,"helpful_percent":0.8109653222166154,"review":"You can marry people to make up for how lonely you are in real life so like that's cool and stuff","hours":55.6}
{"funny_percent":0.04276315789473684,"helpful_percent":0.9673043424358805,"review":"Can I just say thankyou to the developer of this game I suffer with depression and stardew valley gives me a reason to do somethng other than sleep it makes me feel like I have an impact of peoples lives (even if its only in game people). I have played 200+ hours playing this game that's 200 hours distracted from my real life problems. I have oped(SP) in to be a beta tester, this is the first game I've ever done this with thanks to the developer for saying how to do that I really admire him for creating such a good game and hope he goes far in his career and he never loses the magic, Thankyou","hours":250}
{"funny_percent":0.07142857142857142,"helpful_percent":0.9191695847253468,"review":"A really fun game to play.  It's really good to play to consume a little bit of time but also a pick me up. It offers a great but a smallish story. Great textures. A lot of great features such as maintaing friendships with those you talk to. Farming!! Marriage and building up a home to house kids if you want. Character customisation, also the choice of clothing items. The achivements actually hold a purpose so don't buy if you don't like unlocking achivements and actually get something out of them. You can still progress but unlocking achivements offers a great fun feature in the game. There is much more within the game these are just some features that the game offers.","hours":33}
{"funny_percent":0.008264462809917356,"helpful_percent":0.7453372425007581,"review":"I'll admit, I insulted the game when I first took a glimpse at it. The gameplay looked pretty boring and it made me want to snooze, but it was a completly different story (not literally) once I purchased the game.  I was convinced to \"try out\" the game before I judged it, and with my lunatic of a mind--I bought the game to try it out. The reviews don't do it any wrong. I absolutely love the game, the concept of the game is that you \"escape\" the modern lifestyle of working to live in the countryside where your grandfather once owned a farm pass down to you. I can tell you, I honestly feel warped into the game myself, as if Stardew Valley is where I go when I want to \"escape\" the world around me.   The game allows you to marry NPCs, own pets, do quests, farm, sleep, mine in caves, kill monsters--basically everything you could think of in the average life style plus a little sprinkle of monsters here and there. I don't think I have ever felt this close to a game since forever.  10/10 I would recommend this to anybody, everywhere to give it a try. It's worth the price.","hours":60.6}
{"funny_percent":0.048034934497816595,"helpful_percent":0.7131603876312804,"review":"I don't typically write reviews, but I felt inclined to do one for this game. It really does feel like an old school harvest moon, but brought up to date. The gameplay is pretty much exactly what you would expect out of this type of game. The combat is a little wonky but still fun. The game does kind of chuck you in without much of an explanation, and those are honestly the only two downsides I could give it.  The pros more than outweigh the cons, I haven't been this hooked on a harvest moon-esque game since the original. But, to me the largest selling point is the one person developing this game, actually cares. The first 2 days the game is out, there has already been 4 updates fixing issues everyone asked to be fixed. The game has been shown an amazing amount of love even after everyone had already paid for it.   A+ Developer, and a lot of fun, all there is to really say about this game.","hours":33.7}
{"funny_percent":0.03017241379310345,"helpful_percent":0.8832110489889619,"review":"I didn't think I was going to like this game. I picked it up on sale to see what the hype was about. But after playing 21 hours in 2 days, I have to admit, Stardew Valley's the real deal.   This isn't a game you just play.   This is a game you let transport you. This is a game you think about even when you're not playing it. This is a game that reminds you why you play video games in the first place.  Spend a little time in Stardew Valley.","hours":49}
{"funny_percent":0.06060606060606061,"helpful_percent":0.9475384689672579,"review":"After spending 50+ hours on it, I figured Stardew Valley is due for a review.  Story/Characters: While not heavily driven by the story, Stardew Valley sets up your farm-life, and fills it, with many solid, and fun cutscenes. You'll also run into a few nuggets of lore occasionally. Every villager in Stardew Valley is unique, and worth getting to know. 9/10  Gameplay: The farming life has never been better. I fell in love with farming, then with fishing, then with mining. All these are valid methods of keeping a steady income in Stardew Valley. So, I had fun devoting days to different activities, while also completing different quests and requests from the villagers. Also, there are mods, which I haven't even gotten into yet. 9.5/10  Sound: Relaxing, colorful, and happy music kept me humming while doing my daily work. The sound effects were also bright, and they fit in perfectly 9/10  Replay Value: I played Stardew Valley for 45+ hours. In that time, I completed 1.5 \"years\", got married, earned quite a lot of items and money, and almost finished the community center. That might satisfy most; I plan to do it all again, with a few mods. 8/10  Overall Score: 8.9  Summary: Personally, I had a ton of fun with Stardew Valley, and will never forget this game. Thanks to ConcernedApe for this awesome game. I love the crap out of it. Everyone should at least try it. Begin your life in Stardew Valley","hours":55.3}
{"funny_percent":0.04310344827586207,"helpful_percent":0.7690325148410009,"review":"Product received for free  At first Ive added this game to my Wishlist because it got really popular so I got interested in it. Later during Christmas I got it as a gift from a close friend and it stayed untouched for a while as I was simply playing other games. But lately my depression have taken turn for the worse and Ive lost any will to play games. One day when I was feeling especially bad Ive decide to try this game only because it seemed easy and I needed something to make my mind busy.  To my surprise... this game helped. Without realising Ive spent several hours taking care of my virtual farm and and for the first time in weeks I felt calm, happy even. Since then it has become my safe place I go to when I feel really down. In short, I really Recommend this game if youre looking for something relaxing. And if you know anyone who is going through hard times, show them this game, it might also help them.  tl;dr - 10/10 , great for anyone feeling depressed","hours":57.2}
{"funny_percent":0.21337579617834396,"helpful_percent":0.9175663319086489,"review":"what can i say? dont have friends? this game will warm you up. feeling lonely? this game will keep you company. wanna have fun for hours on hours without having to worry about people arround you? this game is here for you","hours":112.6}
{"funny_percent":0.7268445839874411,"helpful_percent":0.8692845573052298,"review":"great game to play when your sad and jobless","hours":28.8}
{"funny_percent":0.06079664570230608,"helpful_percent":0.8897997517551566,"review":"By admission of the dev himself, this game is Harvest Moon at its core. A formula that is purely addictive and satisfying as hell.   But there is something Stardew Valley has over Harvest Moon, and that's a heart. The intro to the game is incredibly human and relatable. I sympathized with my character right off the bat. I think we all know how it feels to want to escape the mundane grind, and in a funny kind of way, this game does that.   A moment I felt that the game truly had a soul was when I was walking to the mines on a rainy day, when suddenly I was greeted by a cutscene of coming upon Abigail, my romance interest, playing a flute next to the lake. It's a very quiet scene, with nothing but the sound of rain and her flute playing. After some dialog, my character (who is a silent protagonist by the way) pulls out a mini harp and joins Abby in a duet, something that really surprised me as there was no indication that my character had any musical talent prior to this scene. It was a bonding experience, and it felt incredibly real, memorable, and touching. I'll always remember it.   And when you realize that there are TEN love interests in this game with different scenes like this for each of them, man, that's an intimidating amount of content.   Maybe I shouldn't be saying that Harvest Moon doesn't have any heart at all, but when it comes down to it, this is the game that I'm going to remember more fondly in the end. I made memories with Harvest Moon as a child. Now I'm making memories with Stardew Valley as an adult. You should too. The game is worth full price and then some.","hours":117}
{"funny_percent":0.08602150537634409,"helpful_percent":0.9261174017790668,"review":"First a couple of admissions. This game gets compared a lot to the Harvest Moon series which I have never personally played. Couple that with the fact that I have also never played a farming sim before and this is pretty much as pure of an opinion on the game itself as you can possibly get.  Now to the point. Stardew Valley is incredibly fun and has managed to hold my interest so much that I'm playing as much as I can lately. There is a bit of a learning curve if you are not familiar with anything from the Harvest Moon series. Friends I know who have played that series and then Stardew Valley clued me into a lot of little things I didn't know about and likely wouldn't have figured out until I read about it somewhere later. But what makes this game even more impressive to me is how a single dev took so much inspiration from something he clearly loved, mixed in loads of player feedback, and built something truely special. I wish I had been one of the people that learned about this game early on so I could have watched it grow (no pun intended).  I also can't help but love the retro art style of classic RPGs, yet with the modern polish and bright colors that make it stand out as still being something new. I can't help but wonder if Chucklefish helped Concerned Ape out with some of that considering how much it reminds me of the art style used in their game Starbound. But either way it's got a surprisingly good level of detail to it with lots of character. As far as how the game plays, I found myself loving the simple yet challenging approach of levelling your five core skills and learning the best techniques to maximize the efficiency and profits of your farm. You start off struggling to make everything work in that first year and by your second you really start to feel like you know what to do now.  The story is also simple but with a lot of charm. Even though Pelican Town is small it always feels like there is something new to discover about the people who live there. While it can take a lot of time and effort to befriend everyone it becomes worth it to see how they all interact together and how much of an impact your character can make in their lives. It's the ultimate expression of a lively small-town community and looking out for your fellow man. Something I think a lot of us lose sight of sometimes in this digital age. But let's not forget the symbol of modern change that takes form in Joja Corporation, a megacorporation looking to monopolize Pelican Town. You can either decide to help them out (for a price) and increase the town's reliance on Joja Corp, or instead work to restore the town's community center and promote local business and interaction, declining Joja further business opportunity in the area. It's a powerful underlying message to the whole game and something many can feel passionate about one way or the other.  Lastly I need to mention the price. For all the hours I've sunk into this game already and will likely continue to add in the future, the $15 price tag feels like a steal. I can't help but highly recommend this game at full price because if you are a fan of this type of sandbox RPG farming sim you will easily justify the cost twice over. I actually bought the game for a friend because it was affordable and something I could recommend to anyone and I knew my friend would enjoy it. While I'm sure it's bound to end up on sale when the initial hype dies down, please don't be someone that waits specifically for that to happen. This game is worth every cent and doesn't cost any more than a month of game time for any MMO out there. If you are sincerely interested and have the money, don't wait.  TL;DR: This game is freaking amazing and you should get it.","hours":211.8}
{"funny_percent":0.008064516129032258,"helpful_percent":0.7123548651201359,"review":"Intro: Stardew Valley is easily one of the most amazing games I've ever played. It lets you enjoy the role of a farmer in a small town, socialize with its inhabitants, and witness an outstanding story that clearly clarifies this game's genius.   Pros: + I am a sucker for pixel graphics, and by all means the spritework here is great and very well-made. + Fun and insanely addicting, in a very good way! You basically get sucked into this game and spend countless hours playing it because it's so incredibely fun! + You get to socialize with the villagers and get to know each and every one of their different, interesting personalities. This is done by the friendship function in the game that is composed of ten hearts. Socializing unfolds new dialogues, stories and great scenes regarding each of them individually. Eventually, there are villagers that you can even marry, and set up a family with. + Explore endless floors with a satisfying amount of monsters and loot. + Fishing mechanic is pretty much fun and challenging, but can be boring at times. + Very simple and comfortable interface and mechanics.  Cons: - Planting and watering plants manually can be a bit tiring at first, but shortly after you progress on your farm, these methods are no longer an issue since you can accomplish these automatically rather than manually. - Obviously this game wasn't made for this, so I can't blame the developers, but the fighting mechanic feels dull and rather unappealing, but you get used to it.  Conclusion and Rating: This game is highly recommended. It is easily one of the best games I've ever played. [ 9 / 10 ] ","hours":68.2}
{"funny_percent":0.03992015968063872,"helpful_percent":0.8128678582657793,"review":"Short Review Version This is what I did for thousands of hours in Stardew Valley: I worked on this guide since the first release. I've tested 477 items for 15741 times to 33 villagers, I've chopped tons of woods, I've smashed tons of stones, I've reset the game for hundreds of times, And I almost lost this guide because my hard disk corrupted. In case of another disaster, So I've to release this halfway works, Whatever I currently have.  I believe Wiki's info are slightly inaccurate. That's why I make my own data references. You can still refer to Wiki if some info is missing in this guide. This guide will be continuously updated when I have free time. I may be busy at life, but I'll try to push updates to this guide. As multiplayer mode rolling up soon, I will include that as well.   DEC17 BREAKING NEWS + GAMEFAQs.COM Stardew Valley V1.2.33 Walkthrough (Steam Version)  A Guide for Stardew Valley By: Progression You can find almost anything here. Villagers Schedules, Hearts Events, 477 Items Tested for 15741 Times for Villagers' Gifts, Full Item Listings (CTRL+F TO SEARCH). 99% Accurate Data.   Long Review Version Once I played Harvest Moon: Back to Nature on PlayStation 1 and Harvest Moon: Friends of Mineral Town in Gameboy Advance. Then I continued to play HM:FOMT in VisualBoy Advance in PC, GBA4iOS for iOS and GameBoid for Android. I went for plantations, mining, fishing, feeding animals, wooing all the cute girls. Unlimited fun hours.  \"Dude, which girl are you chasing?\" \"Elli.\" \"Just pass your game cartridge to me for a day; I'll make her grow to red heart in no time!\" \"Then help me to get 999,999,999G for Vacation House!\"  We swapped GBA game cartridges, grinding it all the time after school hours. That was my childhood memories.  It all began when a friend of mine told me about Stardew Valley which arrives into Steam Store. A game that packs most of Harvest Moon features, which I played back from ten years’ time. I went on checking at Steam Store. Apparently, it looks similar as Harvest Moon, but I doubt how fun it is. All the while, the only farming simulator I loved was Harvest Moon. None other than that. Thankfully, my friend borrowed his Steam Library to me. For the first two hours, I was surprised that finally, FINALLY... A real farming simulator on PC platform. We do no longer running on emulators.  So the first month, as usual, I cleared my land, planting Parsnips and then went hunting for extra berries and grasses. But alas, what I noticed inside was totally blew my mind. No grasses but with different loots and proper item names. Dandelion, Daffodil, Spring Onion, Leek, Grapes, Hazelnuts. And then, there's Bus Stop. An overhauled open town that doesn't vertically or horizontally aligned compared to old Harvest Moon. Quests. Fresh storylines. Tons of letters and goodies in my mailbox. Combat mode in Mines. And MINECARTS!  This Stardew Valley is a new fresh farming simulator. At first, I'm at lost, but since I'm an ex-Harvest Moon addict, I still can keep up with the crops. However, challenges turn in which you have to defend your crops from overgrown weeds or crow attacks. Something new, you can feel it. In my first run, I used to be a monopolist. Spent all my money on seeds and gained maximum profits. But then, the funny part I placed almost more than 20 scarecrows to protect my crops.  I've no idea how far a scarecrow range can cover, how to simultaneously plant and harvest crops, how to organise items and much more. In my thoughts, there might be Steam Guide that helps players to play better. It took me few minutes to load a whole guide with heavy images. Images are wonderful, but still a lack of some details. And much to my disappointment, lots of guides in Steam Community are heavily plagiarised with the assistance from Wiki.  Ten years ago, as far as I remembered, game guides for Wiki hardly existed (Or maybe there's one?). Remember how we used CC Cheat Codes, IGN Walkthroughs, GAMEFAQs.com, and many more old sites? Veteran players are very well-versed at this. Most guides are solely written in text format. The tradition of writing text guide is fading. No comprehensive Steam Guide for Stardew Valley community ever had done this.  I stopped my game in the middle of Winter, Year 1. Over the months, I compiled all items and complete gifting. Day by day, data by data is being added to my works. One day, my portable disk went corrupted and thankfully my only backup still resided in my local disk. Thus, I've made my final decision to post my works in GAMEFAQs.com and Steam Community as what you've seen right now.  I as a fan of Harvest Moon and Stardew Valley would like to thank all of the public contributors who had spent years to compile and posted detailed online walkthroughs for everyone to enjoy HM games, and now we're moving on to Stardew Valley. I wanted to do the same extensive guide for Stardew Valley. Also not forget to thank all my close friends who had helped me to test and verify game data too. As I continue to compile the remaining data, your feedbacks are greatly appreciated.  Feels like I'm relieving back some good ol' memories. Soon I'll have my own printed Stardew Valley guidebook on my bookshelf for my collection. Maybe I’ll be playing this for another ten years. Thanks, Stardew Valley.","hours":3278.6}
{"funny_percent":0.06722689075630252,"helpful_percent":0.7289620979656583,"review":"I haven't been this addicted to a game since Terraria first came out.   It's a Harvest Moon-like where you move out of the city and into a cabin. From almost nothing, you can slowly build up a giant farm, but that's not all there is to do. You can also forage, fish, make friends in town, or explore the monster infested mine.  I don't think I've ever before seen an indie game where all of the sound, art, writing, and gameplay elements work together so perfectly. Seriously, it's that good.","hours":235.2}
{"funny_percent":0.046825396825396826,"helpful_percent":0.8204928504433889,"review":"This game has so much thought and detail put into it. From the little kiss you can give your spouse in the morning, to finding the Mayors underwear in a special someones home, or a little flying witch that could bring you gifts if you are lucky. As a person with very intense anxiety this game helps to calm me down and relax.   Soundtrack and Music - The soundtrack is very calming and peaceful. It's very comforting to listen to as you water crops or mine in the cave. There is always a different song for different events giving it a nice feel good vibe.   Art and Graphics - The game is so beautiful. The art is very adorable and indie. With each different season and each new event or festival you have more quests and more to explore and it all is so stunning.  Characters - The characters are so in depth. They all have a different back story to why they are who they are. They also are mostly kind and sweet once they get used to you and you get used to them.  This game is so much fun and it really goes in depth. This game is one that you can lose track of real time because of how enticing it is. Once you start to get the hang of it there is no putting it down. Then you discover mods which add more game time because they add more to explore.   Overall, the is very fun and beautiful. If you want a good quality and long lasting game this is the game for you.  Down side - There isn't much to say about this game that is bad, especially since mods help make it better. I would love to see working multiplayer to enjoy in game expierence with friends. One other thing is, there is not much of a tutorial for a new player it can be very confusing. It can be confusing on what to do, or how important birthdays are and such can be. But besides these small things the game is amazing.","hours":169.7}
{"funny_percent":0.4966887417218543,"helpful_percent":0.8939824277479629,"review":"I started off in stardew valley with a hoe, an overgrown plot of land, and a few parsnips. Three years later I was a multimillionair expert spelunker with a 500+ barrel artisan winery, a family, and the esteem of the entire town.  better-than-real-life/10 ","hours":240.4}
{"funny_percent":0.10344827586206896,"helpful_percent":0.7594180477852767,"review":"I love people who treat gamers well, this game being made and still supported by one man, is amazing, a good price that put's AAA's to shame.  No pay extra to play bs here, No expensive♥♥♥♥♥dlc here, No overused promises and under delivering, much addictive,  Would recommend.","hours":109}
{"funny_percent":0.05142231947483589,"helpful_percent":0.8041683021990362,"review":"This game is like a wonderful mix of the best of Animal Crossing, Zelda, and Terraria. You don't realize how long you've been playing until it's too late. Very worth it, even at full price, would recommend.","hours":131.9}
{"funny_percent":0.08620689655172414,"helpful_percent":0.76867978331405,"review":"This game was made by one man, and it is better than 90% of all AAA games.","hours":31.1}
{"funny_percent":2.2481751824817517,"helpful_percent":0.7862526000409409,"review":"You can display the Mayors underwear at the Fall Festival.","hours":244.4}
{"funny_percent":0.058084772370486655,"helpful_percent":0.8488264237318524,"review":"This game is just fantastic. Obviously you can see that from the 'overwhelmingly positive' reviews here on Steam, so I will keep this short and try to focus on negatives and things you may overlook in general.  Stardew Valley is what PC gamers have been looking for to scratch that Harvest Moon/Animal Crossing itch. If you like that type of gameplay, just buy this. Don't overthink it. It does it all, and more. What puts it over-the-top is the customization level and modular building ability a la Minecraft/Terraria style. And oh boy is there depth.  Plus, multiplayer is coming!  Pros: +I mean this was made by one guy?!? +Beautiful artwork that has attention to details. I mean it even changes dramatically with the seasons. Its incredible. +Music is absolutely a treat. And once again, changes with the seasons! +Controller support works ok (I'm just glad it exists). +Character customization (male/female, sliders for colors, your appearance changes with different gear, etc.). +You have a large farm to work with. The world in general is a good size. There are 28 NPC's all with their own schedules and agendas. The pixel art for their faces is outstanding. +You can have a pet, and get married (I haven't even done anything with the latter, yet). +There is mining and fighting monsters, although the fighting is casual and isn't even completely necessary. +I could go on and on here really.  Cons: -*Sometimes* the controller support part *feels* glitchy until you learn how to use it (mainly the part with the right stick). Nine hours in and I'm still figuring out nuances. -It would be great if the hotbar were longer so to minimize going into the pause button to juggle things. -The bin you put stuff in to sell each night should show all of its contents. Why not allow the player to retract items put in right up until they go to bed? Its not a dumpster, so things don't get 'tainted'.  Long-story-short - this is beyond excellent. I can't get enough. If you like this genre, this is a no brainer.","hours":52.1}
{"funny_percent":0.08650519031141868,"helpful_percent":0.9301443850927321,"review":"Welcome to the \"Game of the Year,\" seriously. This game is honestly the best game I have played in years, like I can't express how much this game is so heartwarming, loving, feels amazing, fun, replayable and the list of adjectives that I could use range on and on and on and on. This game is literally the best game I've played in ages, and if you don't do yourself the pleasure of playing it; at LEAST watch videos on it because this game deserves the most attention and most amount of love towards it!  Starting off with the story, you are an office worker who works for the \"Joja Corporation,\" sitting in front of your PC and rotting away along with the life around you. The amount of people you see in the starting intro who are wasting their lives away is honestly quite depressing and doesn't even match the tone for the game at all. This game uses the form of a \"Tonal Shift\" which basically starts the game off with such a dark tone, but enlightens it when you get to your bright, vibrant and amazingly joyus farm. The story of the game is that your grandfather gives you an envelope to only open when you need a break from your rural life. Thus the game begins.  You are introduced to your farm by the lovely Robin. She tells you that the farm looks kinda trashy and laughs at you. She may seem like an evil girl now, but she turns out to be such a lovely girl. Now, whilst I'm talking about the people I think it is a good idea to talk about the townsfolk. I honestly feel such a bond and an actual care between all the villagers and all the people that you encounter. They all seem unique and some of them seem to have such a troubled past and many have dark secrets which may be discovered as you progress through the game.  This is yet another amazing example of how the game makes you feel like you fit in and bond. You talk to the villagers and have the option to gift them 2 gifts per week, the villager may love it or they may despise it, and will make it quite apparent if they hate it. As you go up the heart scale, you will unlock cutscenes between the villagers and they may send you meal recipes in the mail. Me, myself, I have never fit in well with people. I would be the person in school (and I still am) the person who would get left behind or be forced to walk behind the person in front. Jist of the story, I was never popular. You're probably wondering where I'm going with this; and well, this game has made me feel like I fit in and that I am actually part of a community of people that care about me. It's a heartwarming feeling and makes me feel so happy and just makes me feel a feeling that I've never felt in a video game.  Enough of the sappy stuff, let's talk about the basicness of this game. Yes, the basics. I know the basics of some games may be quite boring but this game just does it. This game starts you off with tools and just lets you live off the land and allows you to remove the trees, rocks and other forageable items which may be lying around your farm. This game is literally your big, fat sandbox and it allows you to do whatever the hell you want to do with it! The game makes me feel like I am free and that the game isn't restraining me to doing anything and isn't stopping me from doing anything. Stardew Valley does an amazing job of letting you feel like this is YOUR house so YOU can do what YOU want. This game is all about you and making you feel like it's your farm and you can do it. I may be sounding repetitive, but I need to enforce that this game is your oyster.  So, you've probably heard that this game is like a cross between \"Harvest Moon\" and \"Animal Crossing,\" and it really is. This may sound like it's a bad thing, but if you've played either of those games you'll realise that those games are extremely good and make you feel like you're free and have the ability to do anything. Planting your crops (will get into this soon!) is extremely relaxing and is just such a great time waster. Everything in this game just feels so amazing and is just, I'm at a loss for words without repeating myself.  Onto what it's like to actually plant the crops. Planting crops is a great way of making money in Stardew Valley, be if for your own personal use or be it for money. You use your hoe on the ground to till the land, you then place some sort of seed into the tilled land and then water it. Proceed to water it every morning and soon you will have an amazing, bountiful farm filled with delightful looking crops and more colours than the eyes can make out. You don't have to farm in the game, unless you want to actually follow the basic premise of the game, duh. But there are other alternatives which I cannot for the life of me remember right now.  So, there's fishing in this game. Are you surprised? Does the word fishing strike fear into your veins due to other games having such dastardly and terrible fishing minigames? Well, release your fear. The fishing minigame in this game is actually bloody brilliant. The fishing minigame is where you control a green bar and keep it on the fish. If you keep it on the fish for a certain amount of time, congrats, you've caught you're first fish (and probably not your last!) If you manage to not keep the green bar off the fish, the bar will decrease and will soon stop the fishing. That is about it. Oh, also, you have a chance to catch a treasure chest which can contain something really good or something, well, something. You can also build \"Crab Pots\" which can capture unique types of fish (and trash!)  There's so much in this game that I need to talk about, so I hope you're sitting comfortably and are ready for this to go on and on and on. Onto energy and how that works. Energy is vital in this game, and can sometimes be such a crippling factor in this game. You require energy for literally everything you do. I'm not saying this is a bad thing, but I'm saying that you need to make sure that you can manage your energy and ensure that you don't overdo it. Overdoing it will exhaust you and you'll have to go to sleep; if you don't sleep you will fall asleep and someone will leave you into your house. You'll wake up the next day with a letter in the mail telling you that they found you out cold and left you back home.  The game allows you to experience it at your own pace. If you want to play slow and take each day as it comes, do it. You're allowed. You want to play the game fast and wild? Do it, you're allowed. You want to just play the game and not worry about how or what will happen? Do it, you're allowed. At the end of the day, as I've said before, you can do whatever the hell you want and you are free to do what you want. You are literally the owner of this game and you can do whatever the hell you want. This game is about expressing yourself and letting you be the controller of the game.  Stardew Valley has a museum system which allows you to donate your found artifacts and other little gems that you find throughout the game. Finding these things will allow you to get rewards which can decorate your house or unlock a whole new place to visit (OoOOoOoO foreshadowing!) This game rewards you for playing it. It rewards you for being you. It also rewards you in so many ways and just lets you be you. You can also find \"Geodes\" in the land which the Blacksmith may open up for you for the small price of 25 gold! Within these, you can find things to donate to the museum, or if you want to take the monitary approach to it you can sell the things you get from the Geodes.  Final words (I ran over the word limit!!!) I adore this game. I adore ConcernedApe. I adore this game and this community. This game is actually turning out to be the best game that I've ever played and I can't wait to sink many, many, many more hours into this truely magnificent piece of art.  Perfect. 10/10. Game.","hours":94.9}
{"funny_percent":0.8369565217391305,"helpful_percent":0.9438468598319183,"review":"Just one more day and then I'll stop...","hours":138.5}
{"funny_percent":0.04950495049504951,"helpful_percent":0.9286960359291794,"review":"So, this game was responsible for converting my non-gamer girlfriend and I finally got my hands on it…   The Short version: Farm, Fight, Friendship, Romance, Profit. Easily one of the best experiences in gaming I've had in 2016, Stardew Valley baffles with wonderment in a masterfully crafted homage to the HM franchise. Also, bloody amazing piece of work for one human being to make on their own. (9.5/10)  The Looong version: What hasn't been said about Stardew Valley? It's a loving callback to the Golden Age of the Harvest Moon series, sure. But, what makes Stardew Valley stand out from being an HM clone on the PC? Depth and modernity:  + You can actually DATE before marriage (whoever you want regardless of gender) + Combat is functional adds to the sense of adventure + This is a meaty experience that DOESN'T feel cheaply padded + Stories can touch on more adult concepts like substance abuse and abandonment + Mods give you an endless world of possibilities  That's brilliant. That's modern.  With some less than stellar recent entries in the HM series and the bankruptcy of Rune Factory creators Neverland co., Stardew Valley offers gamers a beautiful, immersive and yet simple experience of country life.","hours":28.5}
{"funny_percent":2.719020715630885,"helpful_percent":0.7101217232107856,"review":"Ok so far from my game this is what I got: > farming for first week > mayor tells me to socialize with the townfolk > decide to talk to random people > lots of talking > finally think i met everyone > try to interact with trashcan > find a salad in trash, untouched > girl sees me digging in trash > girl gets grossed out from me digging in the trash > get mad, decide to follow her > catch her walking towards lake > turns out shes pretty > want to know how to marry her > find out that i can gift people > dont know what to gift > remembered i had salad from the trash that she saw me grab > give salad to her > she loves it > advance a year or two later > me and girl are married  I don't understand women, both in this game and in real life.  10/10 would dig in trash again ","hours":187.2}
{"funny_percent":0.11023622047244094,"helpful_percent":0.7441098974860411,"review":"I will be the first to admit that when I saw this game floating around steam a week or two before its release I was kind of skeptic about it. The art and pixel style threw me for a loop, and while I loved Harvest Moon style games and Rune Factory 4, I wasn't too sure about spending money on this game. I've been burned before and I was wary of trying it. It was about... I think a day of or after the release and I noticed it had a small sale and I figured, \"Well, I just got paid, and it might be a good distraction until I find another game to play.\"  ...So, uhm. You might have noticed I have 71 hours of playtime. So I figured I'd better write my thoughts on why I love this game.  Music: 10/10 Everyone knows that what helps make a game great is the music it has. I was immediatly sucked in by the music, it reminded me so much of the Harvest Moon games I played that had such amazing music! If there was a soundtrack available (maybe there is) I would be willing to drop money on it.  Controls: 7/10 The controls of the game are not the worse I've encountered, but I feel it could be improved a bit. Honestly, if I hadn't found the control options this would have had a 5/10 review instead. The 'show tool hit location' was not automatically selected so it led to some frustrating moments just trying to till the ground. The combat was a bit frustrating since you had to turn your character in order to swing the sword in the exact direction it has to go in, but after some practice I've ironed out the kinks.  Storyline: 12/10 Oh my god guys. This, this right here helps make the game for me. Its honestly what I have been sorely missing in other farming games like Harvest Moon. Its not just \"till the land, plant the seeds, make the cash.\" No, this is much more then that. I would love to go into detail, but I don't want to give anything away to people who want to come in blind.  Characters: 10/10 These loveable characters have their own flushed out hopes, fears, and dreams. They have their strengths, their weaknesses, and their own personality. Not one character is the same, their life experiences make them what they are and their background helped shaped them. But at the same time they grow, they adapt, they change. The more you interact with them the more impact you have on their lives. Its amazing.  Character Customization: 10/10 What many Harvest Moon games lacked until recently was being able to customize your farmer. However Stardew has by far the best I have seen. Around 30 different hair styles, over 100 different shirts to chose from, skin color, eye color and hair color. You want to make yourself look like the hulk? Get your green on and hulk up for some farming! Want to be a vampire? A demon? You can be anything!  I would add more but honestly I am a little under the weather as I'm writing this and I'm rapidly running out of energy. So a last few tid-bits for you guys and gals considering this game.  This game does not end in an XX amount of years. You can keep playing for as long as you want.  It doesn't matter what gender you are, you can romance ANY of the 10 available. Are you a gal that likes other gals? Yep, you can woo, date, and marry them! Are you a dude that wants to smooch, woo, and marry other dudes? You can do that too! Guess what else you can do? If you're unable to have kids the traditional way you can ADOPT! You can have a family! Or if you don't want a kid you don't have to have one (at least, I'm pretty sure you don't have to).  All in all, 9/10 game that I plan on playing for a very long time!","hours":449.8}
{"funny_percent":0.04838709677419355,"helpful_percent":0.8364388396389781,"review":"Stardew Valley is one of the best games I've played in a long long long time.  When you follow a game's development for three years it's kind of hard not to have high hopes and in the past I've bought 'Harvest Moon' style games only to be let down but honestly, Stardew Valley is everything I've been looking for.  I have played Harvest Moon religiously since I started gaming but there was never anything even close to it on PC so the second this was released I purchased it. Boy, am I glad I did. The first time I played it was for around 10 hours straight and I only stopped to sleep.  If you're a Harvest Moon/Rune Factory fan then I can't see you not liking the game as it has everything those games had and more. 28 main town NPC's for all your relationship building needs, a HUGE farm (I'm not kidding, it's massive) for all your crops (and there are loads), as many coops and barns as you want for your fuzzy little animals and so. much. crafting. Also, mining, fishing, festivals, random events, casual monster combat, minigames and so much more. Also, Multiplayer is coming!!! I'm 50 hours in an I'm showing no signs of stopping.   The fact that this was made by one person should also be noted. There was no Early Access bullcrap. No endless Alpha/Beta, just the game which I'm glad of. Any bugs that have been found have been quickly patched and the dev is STILL part of the community and still listens to the ideas of his fans.  I personally can't find many reasons to fault the game. There have been bugs but so far I only encountered one and didn't lose more than ten minutes play in reloading which wasn't much hassle to me but I can see how it could annoy some people.   So if you like this genre, just go for it. Stardew Valley is ConcernedApe's love-letter to Harvest Moon, and it's one worth reading.","hours":128.9}
{"funny_percent":0.6024844720496895,"helpful_percent":0.9107567063034124,"review":"You will log 30 hours on this game minimum. You don't have a choice. You start playing it for the first time and that's 30 hours of your life gone. You've been warned.","hours":156.7}
{"funny_percent":0.5234899328859061,"helpful_percent":0.8170980534611455,"review":"Still waitin' for the multiplayer so I can show off my fishin' skills.","hours":1770.3}
{"funny_percent":4.149417852522639,"helpful_percent":0.7209609757873072,"review":"The new update promises to improve the quality of your marriage. Doesnt work, my wife is still pretty upset I play Stardew Valley so much.","hours":66}
{"funny_percent":0.029447852760736196,"helpful_percent":0.9621999735844186,"review":"So this is a fantasy farming town life sim in the ilk of Harvest Moon so rather then beat around the bush, how does it compare?  Farming: On par with Harvest Moon (HM). Some extra details (need for scarecrows, fencing etc.) but it's also missing features like the ability to selectively breed superior levels of crops over multiple generations. There are some balance concerns but being a PC game those can actually be patched. Livestock... lacks variety and some complexity but is more realistic in some respects. For example there's no animal taming, just purchasing. Breeding is in but you don't breed better livestock it just replenishes numbers (and is gender blind). Grooming is more detailed but less hands on. The one noteworthy improvement is conceptually allowing and rewarding field rotation.  Relationships: Superior to HM and It's a Fantasy Life (FL), but inferior to Rune Factory (RF). I say superior to HM but really it's about on par in terms of the mechanics but with more romance options (including same sex). It falls behind in terms of character variety, depth and interaction compared to the RF series but updates could easily catch up.   (Note RF improved on the HM formula is pretty much every way so will be comparing primarily to it now)  Mining: On par with RF, Behind FL. One area it is behind in both respects is variety of ores divided by regions. Stardew Valley has 2 locations you can really go mining. They have a lot of levels, which are divided into different biomes and there's some RNG in ore availability on any given trip into the mines but it's still overall more simplistic terms of layout and progression. Where it really lags behind is the actual mining interaction. It's just click on the rock, it breaks, RNG loot.  Lumberjacking: This ones complicated as it's been mixed with the concept of Foraging. Lumberjacking by itself it close but still behind RF and way behind FL. Foraging also adds features such as getting tree seeds off trees for immediate replanting, finding seasonal wild plants (which you can in turn get seeds for and farm, eliminating the wild foraging once you've completed that seasons set), and at certain times of the year collecting berries. The other titles has these features (coloured grasses and fruit trees etc) but they weren't tied to a skill you could improve. Much room to improve here, especially in terms of the mechanics.  Fishing: Ahead of RF, Close but still Behind FL. Something that must immediately be pointed out is fishing difficulty isn't staggered so there's an easy progression curve. Where as in the other games the seasonal fish in the locations you have access to at the start are easy to catch & get harder as you unlock more areas and progress to later seasons, Stardew will throw you in the deep end right at the start before you have any skill. Plus the RNG will throw top level fish at you to kick your butt again & again. Practising the skill and improving equipment alleviates this over time but a lot of people think fishing is impossible starting out as although there are easy fish to catch to start, you aren't directed to them and RNG can still screw you. The mechanics themselves work well once you are on top of them but still more depth that could be added to compare to FL, but otherwise quite good.  Combat: Behind RF and FL. There's no real depth to the combat. 3 noteworthy weapon types (and you'll mostly just use swords) plus bombs (which you wont use in combat), no spells, no special moves (right click does do an alternate thing like block or ground slam, but it's not effective and you will never do it), no companions, no real footwork, just move close and spam attack over and over until enemy dies. The only tactical considerations are more frustration with the controls then strategy. Enemy variety is lacking compared to the others. First 80 levels there's only 3 varieties of enemies, those who passively stand there, ones that charge you (grounded or flying), and ones that charge you but occasionally block (one that burrows to do so). For all the above the strategy is pretty much the same: Maybe dodge, hit them before they hit you, keep hitting. Then they add enemies that shoot at you, same deal. Much room for improvement. That said the RNG nature of the dungeons leaves a lot or potential open for this to be developed further if the dev decided to so.  Crafting: Way behind RF and FL. No weapon/armour crafting at all. Equipment upgrades handled by a shop. Cooking and deco pieces are just click to create. Super simplistic and uninteractive. That said, there is one area of it where it is ahead of both RF and FL. Decoration... In addition to the ability to lay fences, paths etc. you get to prepare and place the foundation for additional farm buildings rather then the usual fixed locations when you unlock them. Except your house & greenhouse. You are free to place a large amount of functional and decorative furniture both (craftable & collectable) largely anywhere you want on the farm & to some extent all over the town as well. Doesn't compare with say Ultima, or a Minecraft/Terraria clone (omission intentional) but it's a big step up within this genre.   Festivals: Far behind RF. Once you've seen them once most the time you want to skip festivals in Stardew. They are mostly just low interaction cut scenes that waste your entire day (even when the festival says it will end at 2pm, you'll get home at 10pm, day over). You can't give gifts, go shopping or otherwise really interact with the townsfolk in any meaningful way on most festival days and very few of the festivals will attending offer any kind of benefit. The townsfolk don't really acknowledge your prowess or even if you attended at all or not.  Story: Behind RF & FL. The story is very simple and very lightly applied. The one interesting aspect of it is it seems to make a social commentary on small town independents vs corporate growth culture... But it's doesn't seem to penalise or judge the player regardless of which they favour, it just complements two different playstyles respectively. The plot really boils down to if your characters presence improves the lives of the other townsfolk in any noteworthy fashion over the course of 2 years or not. The hands off approach is great if you don't want the game jamming plot events down your throat while you want to focus on the farming sim, but it means when you are looking for context it is relying entire on the depth of it's character interactions, where it is sadly lacking compared to it's rivals.  These aren't shallow characters, but the arcs are short and arbitrary and there is very little individual interaction throughout. Some scripted events are cool but like the festivals the characters have no real self awareness of how they went down after the fact.  Collection: On par or better then RF/FL. Behind Animal Crossing. :-P Good potential here. Museum collection will be expanded in updates too.  Art/Music: Subjective but good quality regardless.  Overall: If you are looking for a story based game with more interactive gameplay mechanics It's a Fantasy Life is a better choice. As far as farming sim specifically goes Rune Factory has more depth and still stands as personal best in genre. I haven't mentioned polish until now as although Stardew is behind all competitors this is day 4 since release and there have been no less then 4 patches fixing most major issues and many smaller ones. When you consider this game was made by one person with no production studio to cover exhaustive QA it's unsurprising launch has been a little shaky. But regular patching will fix this (Edit: & largely has). An advantage of a PC release. Do I recommend it? Absolutely. It might not be best in genre but it's a solid entry, has the potential to improve and is definitely already the best on the PC platform and by extension steam.  If the genre appeals to you, get it. Easily worth the money.","hours":281.1}
{"funny_percent":0.03,"helpful_percent":0.8244002332568945,"review":"Love this game. Have been moving away from competitive, stressful games as I like pursue relaxing gaming experiences and this fits the bill. Plenty to do and very satisfying.","hours":84.9}
{"funny_percent":3.335375191424196,"helpful_percent":0.9963734644275064,"review":"a game about being closer to nature and your neighbors, but is highly addictive and is keeping me indoors and alone. the irony is not lost on me.","hours":226.1}
{"funny_percent":0.07096774193548387,"helpful_percent":0.9495268246903246,"review":"I wasn't sure about this game at first. A lot of things seemed really off about it, like the fast timer compared to modern HM games, but it actually ended up being able to rival even the new HM games and anyone who lacks a nintendo console can just pick this game up and basically get the best of the experiences offered by harvest moon. Animal Crossing fans will also find enjoyment in decorating your house and filling up the museum, and Rune Factory fans will enjoy the mines and subsequent risk-to-reward gameplay they provide. In addition to all this, you do NOT have to make friends with your ♥♥♥♥♥♥ neighbors just to get tools anymore which is probably the best feature of this game. You can basically be a hermit, never get married, and never talk to anyone and you will not miss out. You can even complete one of the two main stories (you can choose which one to complete) without any ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥t socializing like the HM games force on you. But, if you did want to get married, you can even have the option of marrying the same sex which no HM game to date has offered.  The one complaint I have so far is the way the game saves. Saving in games today should be a convenient and accessible feature, this isn't the 80s when batteries were some expensive commodity and games are a lot more involved than they used to be, but this game has a very rigid way of only saving your game between days and you basically have to go through an entire day before you can save again. When you're used to HM games both offering you a diary in your house to save mid-day or even getting the option to skip saving (comes in handy when trying to pray to RNGesus for rainy weather), this can be pretty jarring and I do not understand why the game is like this. All I can figure is the dev prioritized stopping people from cheating over offering better convenience and assurance to the majority of people wh don't, and that was a poor choice. This isn't a PVP game, that is the only time where making design choices solely to prevent people from cheating, even at the expense of legitimate play, is valid, and this being a single-player game basically begs the question \"Who cares?\" when someone wants to cheese it. It isn't like the AI has feelings.","hours":91.5}
{"funny_percent":1.778443113772455,"helpful_percent":0.7843236957106822,"review":"THIS GAME IS RUINING MY LIFE!  I thought that it's a cute game, so i bought it. I started playing, at 6pm after i got off work. I farmed, made friends, did some stuff... Oh ...It's summer already? Let me just give this gift to someone... oh *character* wants this? I have it. Lemme go get it. Well since I'm here I'll fish a little.  Oh, free stuff on the ground. Oh, luck is on my side today? I'll go mining then. Well tomorrow's the festival, so I might as well play one more day. Omg my crops are done!  Hey, one more heart and I can get in Marnie's room to get the mayor's underpants. Oh, i have some stuff to put in the community center. Bridge repaired? Lemme go see. *Gets sidetracked by 5000 other things* Aaand it's 5am and i have to go to work in 2 hours....","hours":279.3}
{"funny_percent":0.14814814814814814,"helpful_percent":0.9480286102494193,"review":"This game was made by one dude. One person made this piece of art. Buy this game.","hours":135.8}
{"funny_percent":0.7055837563451777,"helpful_percent":0.7719693781195709,"review":"I once played this game for thirty-seven hours straight. I logged my first hundred hours within a week. I don't even know how to articulate what about this game makes me like it. Eventually, you do escape. But you always slightly lament the Stardew-shaped void in your life. A part of me doesn't know what to do anymore now, and I'm not sure I'll get it back.  Also you will actually fall in love with your spouse if you choose one. Like, you will talk about them. It's a problem.  11/10 gave me an existential crisis that I live with every day.","hours":242.1}
{"funny_percent":0.06315789473684211,"helpful_percent":0.8083807007563323,"review":"My Review of Stardew Valley  (TL:DR) This game is amazing, made single handedly by Eric Barone. Stardew Valley is an awesome farming simulator but much more, has a terraria graphic feel that made me feel at home and has most elements from harvest moon on the n64 but just done with perfection. The modding community for this game is amazing, Soon to be co-op in early 2018 so my hours are gonna bump up soon. The only issue people seem to have is the replayability which i didnt have a problem with but just keep that in mind as you may be one of those people. Thanks - the game also got an 89 on metacritic[www.metacritic.com]  Full Review  The good things The dense storyline -  I'd like to say that there is a good 50 hours of playing before you have finished the full story line, (all 4 candles) The gameplay is smooth -  The game plays like you'd want it to. The graphics obviously aren't going to need a beefy computer but that doesn't mean the game is bad.  Mechanics -  The way you build friendship with the npcs in this game is well organized, each time you get 2 hearts up on them, you get a certain event. I don't want to spoil the events because they are the kind of thing you need to witness yourself through trying to be with that npc. The mechanics for PvE are very intuitive, much like your average dungeon crawling side scroller type deal. Cool things i dont have a category for -  There are a LOT of secrets in this game, main one being the secret including carved sculptures that hasnt been figured out yet. The secrets are what kept me inside the game for that extra 20 hrs after my 100. This game will generally make you addicted for about 40 hours then you play it on and off for a while till you get to year 20 and have 40 mill in the bank with all achievements completed and theres nothing left to do (supposedly) The replayability - Isee this game as one of the most easily replayable game ever, and this is why it's my favourite game. In Stardew Valley there are so many variables to your gameplay, theres 5 different farm layouts including the original, there are 42 NPCs to meet (12 of which you can marry) There are 2 paths you can choose in the game, go with joja corp. (and suffer the consiquences) or go with the community center. all these variables mean you can have many different kinds of playthroughs. You aren't restricted to just farming - for those who think this is just a farming simulator, i'd use that term very lightly because you can easily go through the whole story without touching a crop, you can fish, scavenge and mine to get money for those house upgrades, although i suggest farming on the side for extra income, its your choice. The *bad* things No co-op - I know that they're working on it but its still not here yet so its a con, co-op would add even more replayability because i'd love playing this games with my friends I WANT MORE STORYLINE - This is a con from probably only me, as most of the *storyline* is the completionist side of the game, i want to see more dialogue, i want to know that linus and the wizard are up to on halloween, i want to know about all the wooden carved sculptures and what they mean, the work on this game is incredible but thats the only thing i want specifically. So Tom, Should i buy it? Yes! i guaruntee a lot of fun in this game, unless you are one of those fps-only kind of people then this isnt your cup of tea. But in saying that i introduced it to my mate who is that person and they thoroughly enjoyed it. So give it a go! It is fully worth its full price but if you see it as too much it goes on sale all the time, also the sound track is really good.  Additionally, i suggest getting SMAPI for later gameplay just because you can make all sorts of farms with it and not have to work for the materials, don't use it for first playthrough as it makes the game boring","hours":164.9}
{"funny_percent":1.0167597765363128,"helpful_percent":0.8609566279178322,"review":"I literally had to force myself to stop playing this game during Year 2 (50-60 hours in) so that I don't fail college.  10/10 will risk future again.","hours":70.7}