{"funny_percent":0.03804347826086957,"helpful_percent":0.7207311763627227,"review":"Bastion is something wonderful. Here in 2017 you might find pictures of a beepin and boopin robot. However it still stands in the shadow of something amazing. This game is hard to dislike, so let's get the con's out of the way first: Con - The 2.5D charcter models are kinda gross looking  Okay that's it. Really that's it. Because this game is LIT. Do you want amazing pseudo-Bluegrass music? If the answer is no, well you're going to be in for a suprise. The game will make you like that kind of music. With it's steam punk environment and characters, as well as the post apocolyptic feel that it brings to the table, the game leaves little room for more than that style. The music is amazing, and compliments the narration, which compliments the gameplay. With a solid combo of all 3, you already are looking good. Had this game raised the bar on graphics, there might have been some more complaints. however they kept it simple. STRONG. This game has choices that only change small parts of the game, however these small choices, make a world of difference to the story. The implications on what someone feels is more important, is brought out in these choices. \"What's more important, the future? The past? Are people to blame? Can they be forgiven? Should they be forgiven?\" These choices tell very different stories, about you, and about the world the writers were making. Gameplay is pretty fair, harsh, with unforgivening checkpoints, but with solid upgrades and practice you'll do fine. All in all I'd give it a 8.75 out of 10.   TL;DR:  Wtf are you reading this for? I'm sure you've heard of the game. If you're being some snooty♥♥♥♥♥hipster, just buy the ♥♥♥♥ing game, I have 62 hours in it. That's at least one Darksouls 3 run","hours":62}
{"funny_percent":0.003875968992248062,"helpful_percent":0.9042695262962153,"review":"DaRevieweD #8  The First Game That Put Novel Developer 'Supergiant' On The Gaming Hall of Fame. Its Not Surprising Why. It Easily Distinguishes Itself in The RPG Genre, You'll See How Below. If You've Played Transistor and Pre-Ordered 'Pyre', or You Just Found Out About All These Aforementioned Titles... Now's The Ideal Time to Give This Game A Whirl. By the By, This Game is SUPER Cheap Right Now With The Summer Sale 2017 On... That Has Ended. Don't Fret! There's Always The Next Sale.  The Gist: Post-apocalyptic premise known as the 'Calamity' has plagued. You play as a character known simply as 'The Kid', highlighting your helplessness and anonymity. On your search for survivors, you are to also locate pieces of fragments to restore the 'Bastion', a safe haven. You witness the remains of many that you've known... and those that you could've gotten to. He Matures and Takes On Responsibility.  \"One Step At A Time.\"  [+] PROS; (a) A Simpler Time- The art style is breathtaking, despite exploring the after-effects of the tragedy that took so many lives. One cannot help, but envision a period when the places were crowded with people and not rubble.   Additionally I love how it seems as though The Kid is a newborn. What I mean by that is how the pathway falls into place and gradually unravels before our eyes when he navigates the field. Its a neat little feature, that shows his being distant and how everything has changed after the Calamity.  (b) Nothing Held Back- There's just so much diversity! Combat system, in real-time allows the flow of battle to be followed. Equipped with two weapons at a time. Choosing to deal quick attacks, special attacks, swapping between the two instantaneously and then rolling away, strategize on the go! The environmental hazards plays a large factor too.  Not to forget there are more than enough weapons to suit the differing playstyles. Be it, Long range- 'Dueling Pistols', 'Fang Repeater' and many more! A much necessary alternative, Close range- 'Cael's Hammer' and More!! Or the combination of the two- 'Brusher's Pike', 'War Machete' and MANY, MANY, MANY.... (Cuts Off)  (c) Growth Spurt- There are upgrades to the core of the Bastion that unlocks new structures, to tap into greater power. Each weapon can be further modified in either one of two options, three times- dealing more damage, critical rate up or better accuracy (some are weapon specific)  With cumulative experience points, The Kid gains a slot for an upgrade per level up. The in game currency 'Spirit' gives access to buying stats increasing items or parts/materials for weapon upgrades. It absolutely feels as though he as ageing, although not physically and the Player is the parent.  (d) Milestones- Apart from story levels, The Kid can undertake 'Proving Grounds' where he will be promisingly rewarded with 'Spirit', weapon materials and new weapons-exclusive arts. Each one is accommodated to a particular weapon, so you have to adapt accordingly. Varying tests of reflex, wits and brawn, the Proving Grounds have them all!! Not for the faint of heart.  Of course, there is the structure where you invoke 'Idols'. They are where buffs can be granted to the enemies in exchange for more XP, Spirit and all-round misery. If you love get-rich quick schemes but even faster deaths, you are welcome to have a taste.  At a certain point, The Kid will stumble onto 'Who Knows Where' A 20-Waves fight it all out, where additional backstory is narrated! Lets not forget New Game Plus, where the enemies will be tougher? (Though I have yet to actually do it....)  (e) More Than Words- So the game is filled with narration by an old, wise man. They're well implemented mostly, with every action that The Kid does, its given a nice touch of commentary. (To draw on the pointlessness and to humor us) These can occur when falling off, doing repetitive things, dying, destroying certain objects multiple times.  The story itself is also heavily narrated, every key item that is found can be given to others for their thoughts (also narrated by the same old guy) which leaves us to symphatize (to a degree, emphathize)   (f) Life- The plot felt complete. Nothing too long, probably able to finish in 5-6 hours. This game will force you to feel every emotion. It had some twists that plunged The Kid into moments of despair. There were some instances of hope where the sanctuary had survivors. But never overwhelming amounts.. At the end, it did tell its story. (and a story it was) (PLAY IT!!)   (g) In The Country- Sountrack was awesome for a first impression (Shout out to DARREN KORB!) It had a Folksy, acoustic tune with a modern vibe. There was a track featuring Ashley Barrett (LUV!!) and anything with lyrics, is always appreciated.   [-] CONS; (i) Third Person- I know I said the narration was a good move. However, it also means that throughout the entire game, (we'll all be hearing an old voice) Not that there's anything wrong.. He can be believeable at least, but monotonous at worst. Its like as some have pointed out, an aged sage telling a story. .. Our minds, attention do wander off right? After prolonged durations..  Furthermore, it ruins the immersion. I think since there are other characters... They should have their own voices when they speak/share their thoughts. Just to add characterisation. Instead they are expositioned through narration, which becomes depersonalized. (But hey, its their project, I get it. Their vision, so I am not gonna b-word about that)  (ii) Survival of The Fittest- This is probably, definitely me being biased but it shouldn't have included a top rankings feature.The game does has a score attack mode... Yes, I feel that ruined it. You play the campaign to discovera fascinating story but you then go gung-ho to compete with others. Where's the drama gone? (I am still glad its included, because you got to please some people that aren't me)  (iii) Not in Stock- Since they've included all that weaponry, they could've gone one notch higher and give up the option to change some equipments (armor, accessories) altogether. (Not a big issue, I'd just prefer some cosmetic changes) (Also, where would they even find a supplier..)   Bastion Is One of My Personal Favorites. I Cannot Generalize This As One of The 'Best' in The RPG Genre, (Reason being I have not played a whole lot...) But Its Safe To Say That It Is of The Few That Stand Out. With More Good Than Problems, Its Will Surely Take Shelter In Our Memories.   \"Somewhere Only We Know.\"  10/10","hours":12.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8126760152510787,"review":"This game is so beautifully made, it combines stunning visual aestetics along with a marvelous OST, the story is soothing and the gameplay is very fluid, addictive from start to end. Replayability is decent as well","hours":31.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8387601407534618,"review":"Rarely does artistic excellence and mechanical brilliance come together in as amazing an experience as Supergiant's Bastion. Its vision is remarkably strong and merciless in its attempts to astound your expectations, never content to settle for anything less than wholly inspired. It stands apart as a shiny example of independent ingenuity, a bar to which others should aspire to hit, but more than that it manages to feel as fresh and fully developed as anything coming out of much larger studios. It's the sort of experience that sticks with you after you finish it, hollowing out a place in your mind where the most excellent games of our time take up residence, sure to be talked about for years to come.  A proper story's supposed to start at the beginning, but Bastion's not that simple. It spins its narrative in a nonlinear spiral, urged on by the smooth voice of the narrator, who describes your character's every action with a cool and calculated tone that gives the impression he knows more than he's letting on and has seen this all before. More than just a original storytelling device, it gives Bastion a personality all its own from the second the game begins. It keeps you engrossed despite an almost complete lack of character dialog, falling back largely to third person descriptions that on their own may seem meaningless, but when weaved in perfect context to the action on screen create something of a living story; one which feels as much a product of your own actions as the author's. The plot is never neglected however, as slowly but surely it all winds back together, taking control over the fascinating amounts of lore you are told throughout your journey and turning them into a full featured narrative that never falters or shows any sign of hesitation. Its deliberate planning can be traced back to the very first line uttered in the game, and when you finally see it all fleshed out, it's rather incredible that it works anywhere near as well as it does.  Bastion operates under a clear design to offer the player as much freedom as possible to choose their own playstyle. Almost entirely focused on hack'n'slash combat, it presents new weapons and means to dispose of your enemies on a near constant basis. Mixing and matching these weapons and abilities is what allows you to tailor the game to your own playstyle, from melee and ranged weapons, to a near endless variety of passive upgrades and power ups. Whatever you choose you're never locked into any one upgrade path, which lets you freely experiment to find what works best for you. The combat itself is extremely simple, but meticulously balanced and refined to feel satisfying and as challenging as you want to make it. It excels at creating a constant feeling of progression, even past the point of finishing the game as you can then playthrough it again in new game plus mode to catch any upgrades you missed, or take on even bigger challenges.  This almost doesn't matter though, in the face of Bastion's astonishing presentation. The flow of tiles building the path in front of you venture through the world, the gorgeous art design that overflows with vibrancy and creativity, and the unbelievable soundtrack that blends an astonishing amount of styles into a sound that's unlike anything I've ever heard. It's truly an artistic feat that puts the bland and predicable visual and sound designs of other games to shame, and should serve as a reminder to developers that conforming to a common mold is detrimental not only to your games identity, but the industry as a whole. I can scarcely recall playing a game with as much aesthetic originality and finesse as Bastion, and it's a triumph to its creators that they were able to create something that is as impressive to look and listen to as it is to play.  Even before I played it, Bastion always stood as something of a posterchild to me for indie games. Its relentless ambition and startling success at achieving it are a showcase of how much can be accomplished by a small team with a clear set of ideas for the game they want to make. It's stunning and memorable in the way few games could ever hope for, and is as mechanically solid as it is breathtakingly presented. It succeeds in every aspect, and is one of the most well rounded games I have likely ever played.  You can read more of my writing on Kritiqal[kritiqal.com].","hours":10.7}
{"funny_percent":0.004878048780487805,"helpful_percent":0.7599382921444731,"review":"Bastion: where gaming meets genius  When Supergiant Games released Bastion in August 2011, probably they themselves probably won't have dreamt of the enormous critical acclaim their debut title would get. Seldom has an independent developer hit the gaming scene with such an original and beautiful game as in this case.  When I started Bastion for the first time, I immediately got the feeling I was in for a special treat. Few games begins as arrestingly as this one, with the whiskey- and smoke-weathered voice of the \"narrator\" immediately setting the scene. This narrative aspect proved crucial in the way Bastion drawed me into its world. It seemed like every step I made or every action I tried, could be met with some commentary. This feeling that the story develops \"on the spot\" is further enhanced by the fact that the world literally materialised under my feet as I ventured further out. This world is painted in bright and gorgeous colours with a teint all of their own: Bastion would be immediately recognizable just by looking at the colour-pallette.  The story by itself proved interesting enough to keep me playing, wanting to discover step-by-step how things would develop with the Bastion and the protagonists. Gameplay-wise, Bastion is not as innovative as in its storytelling or visuals, but it takes a well-tried formula into perfection. At its core, it is an action-rpg (light), preferably to be played with an xbox 360 controller (as are so many games the past years!). Controls are perfectly laid out and very intuitive: after a couple of hours I played it as if I had done so for several years. As the game progresses, more weapons and special abilities are unlocked, all with their distinctive characteristics. Weapons can be upgraded in five stages each, and liquids add some punch to the main-characters possibilities. Several other elements complement this core gameplay so that there is always enough variety to keep things interested. I even signed up immediately for the \"new game plus\" mode after completing the game a first time, looking forward to more unlocks of different sorts.  Another department where Bastion truly shines, is its soudtrack. Seldom has ingame-music helped me so much in getting \"into\" the game, as it captures the mood of every level to perfection. Combined with the unique grain of the narrator's voice, this develops into a great listening experience. The developers also did a wonderful jobs in the myriad of smaller sounds present in the game: every weapon for example has a unique \"ring\" to it, from the zippy sound of the Breaker's Bow to the rusty clack of the Musket. There really is no weak link in this game. Everything is extremely well thought-off, and even better implemented. It's a must-play for everyone who loves pc gaming.  Gameplay: 27/30 Graphics: 18/20 Sound: 10/10 (maybe the best of all elements in this game) Longelivety: 8/10 (I played it for over 25 hours, exploring it to the full) Technical: 10/10 (no issues whatsoever) Steam-integration: 8/10 (trading cards, leaderbords and achievements included, the latter good but not special) Personal appreciation: 9/10  Overall: 90/100  I completely love Bastion and recommend it emphatically. Since I started writing reviews of the games I play on Steam almost a year ago, this is the first game that gets a score in the 90's - I don't want to ruin my scoring-system with giving too many high-scores. But this one deserves it to the full.","hours":26.5}
{"funny_percent":0.9492635024549918,"helpful_percent":0.7933469740166108,"review":"Kid writes a review, and isn't too sure what to say. Ten outa ten, best game of the year, or a fine work of art, words of praise that's hollow with no real meaning. You could say this kid wants to write about the solid gameplay, engaging story, beautiful world, amazing soundtrack, and a fine narration. But the kid knows better... The game left him feeling satisfied in the end, no one can say he had a bad time. But all phrases and words just don't cut it for the kid, so he'll leave it like this, Bastion made him happy like a Scumbag with a full stomach.","hours":4.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8620449147918485,"review":"\"Kid just rages for a while\" ~The Stranger  Bastion should be counted among those few games that not only meet, buy even exceed all the promises we get in their early description. Being one of the most beautiful and climatic games of 2011 this action RPG shines brightly even now, still as fresh and original as during its release.  The game itself is not so complicated. You take up role of a Kid, waking up, all alone, surrounded by beautiful yet crumbling world falling apart into thousand pieces. What You need to do is get to the Bastion – safe heaven set up to shelter those who’d survive any crisis threatening Your homeland – city of Caelondia.  To Your aid, in a quest to find, and rebuild Bastion, You’ll get a vast arsenal of even the weirdest weapons, each coming with different mechanics and “special skills” which further enhance Your possible combat strategies. Further modifications to Your play-style can be achieved through quite original system of upgradable structures built inside the Bastion, which allow Kid to chose worshiped “gods” in a shrine, or special drinks in a distillery each differently affecting game environment, providing new opportunities or threats.  Despite game mechanics being pretty simple it’s not easy to get bored with ‘Bastion’ even after a few long hours, but what really makes this game stand out is its unique way of telling the story. Most of our actions are commented actively by omniscient narrator, who not only slowly reveals some details behind tragic events that left the whole world in ruins, but also perfectly portraits the Kid and his few friends, allowing us to immerse into the games plot on a level rarely seen in video games.  The last thing worth mentioning about ‘Bastion’ is it’s astonishing soundtrack. Composed by Darren Korb this game’s music fits its dreamy, hand-drawn canvas perfectly, strongly enhancing the impact of the narrative.  Overall, I consider this game to be one of the most amazing feats of storytelling in video games, and definitely one of my favorites. And don’t get scared that the game relying so heavy on its story will get boring after just one completion. NG+ and Score Attack modes, matched which some arena-styled levels will allow You to spend long hours in “Bastion's” captivating world !  Pros: - One of the most beautiful soundtracks out there. - Light, yet interesting story with uniqe responsive narration. - Vast amount of weapons, special skills and other modifications. - High replayability with NG+ and Score Attack.  Cons: - To some, controls may feel a little unresponsive (I base on some friends opinions)","hours":29}
{"funny_percent":0.045871559633027525,"helpful_percent":0.7705917000897162,"review":"Bastion might not be something to get a ton of hours out of or regularly play, but its one of the most original RPGs. It really didn't feel bland at all. The game's simple, but very fun to play. Its good to get into if you don't want to learn a complex system or devote a bunch of time into going through an RPG. Its not a long game, but that doesn't make it lesser. There's some replayability to it with different modes too.  Bastion's strongest point is the story. Oh my God its so good! A bit depressing, but so strong. It had a great impact on me and is easily a game that will never be forgotten. I won't speak much on it. You have to play through it for yourself. Also, the story is narrated. Its pretty neat and really sets the mood of the game. I couldn't imagine playing the game without the narration!  The art is gooorgeous. It has a very artsy look and is quite colourful. Its pleasing to look at. I liked it a lot.  The music is also excellent. Has an OST worth playing outside of the game. The style of music was pretty unique. Some really great tracks and its something I still listen to here and there.  There's a few different ways to play the game when it comes to controls. It all runs very well. No issues.  Bastion is just a total masterpiece. If you haven't played it you need to. Its one of those must-play indie titles that people will still be talking about years from now. Kind of the FF7 of indie games :)","hours":8}
{"funny_percent":0.034782608695652174,"helpful_percent":0.7637496858386197,"review":"I waited to write this review until I had beaten the game and got all of the achievements.   I didn't really expect much from this game. I'm not really into these action, kiddy looking, RPGs. I kind of just picked it at random from where it had been collecting dust in my library, but it won my heart. The voice acting is amazing and clever. Arguably, there is a deep philosophical lesson to this game. I won't give it away though. The music? Wow. I have never wanted to buy a game soundtrack, but I do now! At some point in the game, you get a radio, with which you can put whatever song you like on from the soundtrack.   The game has different endings. You beat the game once, and have the option to play the game again with all of your weapons, upgrades, and level intact. This is helpful to get a different ending and/or for achievements.   There is also a attack score mode, where you restart from the beginning, without your upgrades and from level one. In this mode, you can accumulate points and compete on the leaderboards.   There are some really tough achievements, but once you get them you have this huge feeling of accomplishment. They really test your skills as a player.   Buy this game. If you are on the fence, put it on your wishlist, and buy it when it goes on sale. I seriously doubt that you will be disappointed.","hours":53.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7606775119734623,"review":"Let me start by saying, I did not think this game would be for me. I read a lot of reviews over the years and nearly all of them were positive. So I figured after 6 years, I'd finally give this one a chance.  Wow. I was missing out.  This is a complete game and has the fundementals that most games today lack. Solid gameplay, beautiful visuals, endearing story, solid narration, emotional music, and even puts the important choices in your hands.  While it may drive some away, I also appreciate that it's not filled with fluff to drive players into countless wasted hours. This game is a GEM. I can't guarantee you'll like it, but I'm fairly certain you will.","hours":8.8}
{"funny_percent":0.015748031496062992,"helpful_percent":0.8485476901518297,"review":"this is a game i actually like playing. why arent you playing it? it's well written, well paced, and not repetitive. it's kept my interest for more than a day. it's a game worth playing.","hours":12.7}
{"funny_percent":0.5344827586206896,"helpful_percent":0.9093315930313876,"review":"Kid decided he ought to write a review. He could recommend it, that was the simple part. The rest of the words didn't come so easy. Tough to do justice to a thing like that.  (Seriously, just play it.)","hours":12.5}
{"funny_percent":0.024390243902439025,"helpful_percent":0.9910181343905259,"review":"Bastion...  Now, ladies and gentlemen, THIS is a good game right there. What is there not to love?  Good gameplay. Engaging story. Superb art. Breathtaking soundtracks. Terrific game.  Overall, just trust me and play it, you won't be disappointed.","hours":7.7}
{"funny_percent":0.075,"helpful_percent":0.8894812803448887,"review":"Most of you must have played it already. I will try to keep it short. Anyways, Bastion is a wonderful game. In the first few minutes, it pulls you in like quicksand with its watercolored art and \"what the hell happened here\" curiosity and its hard to quit playing after that. I guarantee that you will only quit playing either a) Your eyes start hurting real bad, b) You need to get out of that chair and do something.(^Its mostly gonna be 'a'^).  Lets break it Down:  ++Fantastic Storytelling: Logan Cunningham does a fantastic job in narrating and guiding the player through the world of Bastion and at the same time, keep it alive. The Dyanmic commentry presented here is something i wish all games had. It just makes the game feel more Alive. It has lore, but only essential to the game.Yes he's also in Transistor. +++  ++The GAMEPLAY : OH YEAH, Fluid combat system and varied enemies keeps things interesting throughout the whole game. The melee and ranged weapons are well balanced and its upto to the player to figure out the what weapon loadout(2 melee or 2 ranged or melee-ranged) to take that bests suits one's playstyle. This i liked very much. Made me spend time experimenting with the different weapons, secret skills, passive boosts(spirits) and finding that right loadout for me. I also loved that we'd fall off the edges,keeps you more aware and cautious rather than just running around crazy. The level loading was also something eye-catching as it loads as you move or progress in-game,land just literally falling from the sky.++  ++The Amazing Art : The game was quite colorful with the watercolor backdrops and vistas, NPC designs were nice,and art was overall very appealing for 2.5D game.If you notice closely, you can see the different animation details for a lot of combat moves.++  ++The Sound: The sound sometimes really set the mood for whats happening in-game. Its amazing, maybe you wont feel its amazing just by listening to the tracks alone, but when in-game, they really bloom emotions. Yes, same sound team in Transistor..++  Overall: 10/10. Coz its one of those few games that made be Start NG+ difficulty. If you have it in your library and have'nt played it yet, I recommend YOU GO PLAY IT.  One of the more powerful games emotionally for me. Its not \"Just\" another Indie Game. A brilliant marriage of story and mechanics.  Waaay more Depth than Transistor.  Spoiler Alert: ","hours":15}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8629411449539691,"review":"Full of cryptic one-liners and bluesy-folk music, Bastion almost seems more like an art house project than a game at first glance. Rest assured though, with it’s stylish isometric graphics and stunning presentation, Supergiant Games has created something that not only brings a certain amount of legitimacy to indie titles, but in my honest opinion pushes the established medium of video games forward as whole. I would argue that Bastion is one of the biggest arguments for games as an art form to date.  But how does one review or explain art? Everyone has their own interpretation. It is pretty easy to notice Bastion’s graphics, any screenshot is a testament to how gorgeous the game looks. But Bastion is not just a pretty picture; this is one game where you can not ignore the audio. There is a reactive narrator the explains everything as if he is watching you play. Fall off a cliff and he tells you to watch your step, get a new weapon and he is sure to have a little quip about it. Both the narrator and the game’s haunting music added greatly to the atmosphere and storytelling.  Not content to rest on style alone, Bastion is also a solid action RPG. You assume the role of The Kid, who is never named. You awake to empty space, an existence that has been destroyed by an event known as the Calamity. As you take your first steps into this brave new world, life springs up under your feet and upon arriving to a safe haven dubbed the Bastion, you learn that it is your destiny to rebuild. Cores brought from the Wilds beyond the safety of the walls allow you to construct buildings: a forge for upgrading weapons, a shrine for paying patronage to the gods, or even a distillery for mixing your own drinks.  Without giving too much away, the Kid comes to find out what caused the Calamity; the story is not entirely complex but rather poetic and touching. There are multiple different endings and a score attack mode to keep you playing long after the credits roll. And since the new game plus allows you to keep levels and weapons, I found it worth it to play through a few times in order to see everything. In short, I would say Bastion is pretty much perfection.","hours":28.4}
{"funny_percent":0.0035971223021582736,"helpful_percent":0.9820851546691249,"review":"Bastion is an amazing game, filled with colorful art and a sexy narration that tells the story as you play as oppose to ripping the camera and controls from you so you can watch a 5 minute cut scene. I would love to play another game with this guy as a lead voice. Music for the game is also very good and fitting for this kind of game, somewhat somber at times.The game play is pretty fast pace and excellent, though has it's short falls. One of them is that you are given too many weapons, Unless you plan on experimenting with the weapon load-out, You will usually stick with what works for you. Same with secret skills, which I hardly ever used while playing. Overall, an amazing game that opens up for you the more you play.","hours":11.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9295696489391712,"review":"It's amazing, really. The gameplay might not be anything too special, but what really makes it work is the synergy of a moody story, an excellent narrator, a memorable OST and good visual design.   Listen to this:  YouTube™ Video: Bastion Soundtrack - Setting Sail, Coming Home (End Theme)  Views: 2,421,248 The official Bastion OST is available here: http://store.supergiantgames.com/ A juxtaposition of the Zulf's Theme (Mother, I'm Here) and Zia's Theme (Build That Wall, with some omissions) set to a... ","hours":9.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9747651311869726,"review":"-------------------------------------------------------------------  UPDATED review since I finished the game UPDATED review since it will go on sale in one hour for the price of two eclaires  -------------------------------------------------------------------  My advice: go outside, look at the beautiful sunny day, gaze at the blue sky, marvel at the fluffy clouds, hear the chirps of the birds, hear your neighbors' voices as they salute eachother with a charming \"Good day!\" then forget all that and get the ♥♥♥♥ inside.   The game has all those feelings, just better.  -------------------------------------------------------------------  If there was ever any doubt that games were not true art then I just think of this masterpiece and laugh at all ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥tters who say otherwise.  I sat here for minutes writing this review and I tried to think of things to put in the negative section and I damn couldn't find any flaws in this immaculate jar of gaming Nutella.  -------------------------------------------------------------------  What's in this bag of candy? The creamiest and most delicious candy of the Supergiant Game brand. These guys hit each nail on the head.  8/10 Game mechanics. You have an entire array of tools at your disposal to spice the gameplay experience of any human on this planet that knows how to use a computer.   - You have weapons. As varied as you can get, all with different playstyles, strengths and weaknesses. And you can carry two of them at once. UPGRADING THEM IS DAMN GUD. You can even go TWO paths for each weapon and specialise in whatever hell you want to unleash - You have skills. Some tied to weapons and only function with a specific one, others work whenever. Can't spam the skills, since you need a Black Tonic per use and they will more likely than not save your♥♥♥♥♥♥in every situation you need your♥♥♥♥♥♥saved. - You have things like Tonics. You don't need to be an alcoholic to enjoy the game, because in the process you'll end up drunk with it. Depending on your char level, you can have a certain number of Tonics active at a given time that offer bonuses and some drawbacks. Mix them however you want to cover your weaknesses or boost your strengths. - For the hardcore master race you have things like Idols, which you can activate to make the game harder and increase your XP gain. Idols like ♥♥♥♥ING Micia which grants +10% xp but the damn monsters regenerate. GOOD LUCK FIGHTING THAT FRONT-ARMORED ELITE JUMPING ♥♥♥♥ER - You have those scroll thingies, which if you complete you gain in-game currency 'n'♥♥♥♥♥♥ It's like achievements that are not achievements but actually matter. - IT HAS A NEW GAME PLUS that I have yet to complete  8/10 Platforming. - Fighting is visceral and satisfying. Want to spam clicks? LOL GOOD LUCK WITH THAT - You have damn right interesting monsters that become deadly in certain combinations since they all have weaknesses and strengths.  - Level design is just sublime. ♥♥♥♥ING FLOATING ISLANDS GUYS IT'S LIKE IN MY NON-SEXUAL DREAMS - various mechanics spice the combat a lot, like defending, counter-attacking, throwing, power-shooting, pelvis thrusting. You can do all kinds of♥♥♥♥♥♥and you'll feel proud when it works.  10/OUTTA10 Soundtrack / Voice acting - I'm totally homo for that narrator - I felt bad for downloading the soundtrack to my phone without paying, but let me tell you how smooth the 5-hour car trip from today was: LIKE A BRICK OF BUTTER SLIDING ON ICE - that damn game atmosphere makes your head spin it's so good  JUST LISTEN TO THIS  YouTube™ Video: Bastion-Build That Wall (Zia's Theme)  Views: 1,381,953 This is a very calm song that is in Bastion, when you see a girl named \"Singer\" you listen to her singing this. (they game just says she is singer, but later it says her name is Zia)  AND THIS  YouTube™ Video: Bastion Soundtrack - Setting Sail, Coming Home (End Theme)  Views: 2,421,248 The official Bastion OST is available here: http://store.supergiantgames.com/ A juxtaposition of the Zulf's Theme (Mother, I'm Here) and Zia's Theme (Build That Wall, with some omissions) set to a...   10/OUTTA10 Art style.  - eye candy across the board - not only that, the candy variety is spanning all kinds of environments, monsters and characters - I won't even dare to try and put it into words, go see it with your own damn eyes  It's just downright jaw-dropping what they managed to do with just two dimensions.   Play it.  -------------------------------------------------------------------  \"Art is the only way to run away without leaving home.\" ~ Twyla Tharp  -------------------------------------------------------------------","hours":11.4}
{"funny_percent":0.0425531914893617,"helpful_percent":0.8042571539286957,"review":"AT A GLANCE (Full review follows below)  Game Name: Bastion Original Release: 2011 Genre Tags: RPG; Action; Atmospheric; Isometric  My Overall Grade: A+ Estimated Playtime (Campaign): 5-11 hours Multiplayer Aspect: None Recommended To: Established fans of the genre; Those intrigued by the genre; Aesthetes; Game atmosphere connoisseurs  REVIEW Bastion is a very soulful game. That’s probably its most defining feature. It's in the style of an isometric hack-and-slash, drawing from arcade roots and presented with a poignant atmosphere. It is definitely a very easy game to enjoy; and it should appeal to wide variety of gamers. And since it is medium length and has a wide range of difficulty options, it is a good game for anyone who may want to take a step out of their comfort zone and try something different.  Probably the first thing that jumps out about Bastion is the gorgeous, hand-painted artwork. But that only scratches the surface. The whole atmosphere of this game is incredible. The world literally unfolds around you as you make your way through the environments. The soundscape is spot on and the music is great. It is a very aesthetic experience.  The gameplay is strongly narrative-based. In fact, there is an actual narrator that guides you through the game. This nature of the game does lead it to be semi-linear, although you do have a fair amount of branching options to work with in some aspects of the game. The gameplay is pretty simple and intuitive, but also offers a surprising amount of depth. There is a decent variety to your arsenal and to the enemies you face. And the baseline difficulty is very easy, which is the proper way to design games so that everyone can enjoy them. Nevertheless, the innovative difficulty system in the game allows you to tweak various specific options (enemy health, enemy damage, player movement, etc.) to meet your preference and tackle the most extreme challenges/achievements.  Now the game isn’t really that long if you were to only do a single playthrough of the campaign. However, there are the aforementioned challenges and achievements to tackle, a NewGame+ Mode, and also an Score Attack Mode where you get a running score throughout your playthrough and can compete on leaderboards, if that is your thing. So you should be able to get a good amount of playtime.  So, in summary, I would say that the synergy of the soulful presentation, the intuitive gameplay, and the unique narration makes this game more charming than a Disney prince. Bastion is a great gaming experience, and a modern classic. Unless you are adamantly not interested in this genre, I recommend you at least consider giving it a shot.  Follow my curation page to see more of my recommendations!","hours":12.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9823293743168933,"review":"Heck, I was almost sure I had already wrote a review about Bastion! Anyways, I came to Bastion - SuperGiant's first game - only after discovering Transistor, which is the second one made by that studio and to me by far the best one, even compared to their third effort (Pyre). Bastion is anyways, simply awesome. Its graphics are amazing, and the world - every single level, literally - unfolds ahead of your eyes while you're walking. The narration is great, just like in Transistor and Pyre, and it guides you thorougly through your epic journey in rebuilding the Bastion - your \"core\" in which you can build step by step, unlock and upgrade new places (weapons/forge shop, temples with idols, sidequest scoreboards, a distillery.. you can upgrade everything too!). The game itself is a pure action RPG, in which you have two weapons of your choice and a special attack; it's playable on keyboards too, but it has a perfect joypad support. Maybe, a negative thing is that if you find yourself good with two weapons you're not that pushed into trying the whole of them, something that you constantly do in Transistor (and they did a great upgrade in this field).. I found some weapons really better than others and so the majority of them I used only for the special trials and nothing more. But it's really ok, all in all action RPGs often have only a melee attack xD The soundtrack is amazing, like the artwork. Nothing else to say, it's all greatly mixed together and you never have the feeling that something is out of place. The other negative point can be a repetitivity in the gameplay, since the levels are all quite the same and they don't require some special strategies; Bastion's main point is of course not replayability, although I played it for two full times and have been really satisfied with that. But this can vary from player to player; anyways, to me, the enemies in the later stages of the game tend to be copies of the previous ones and the mechanics are very good but as I said with weapons, if you've found your own game style you're driven more to enforce and empower your own style rather than try different strategies - things that you must do in the other Supergiant games. Reviews that get like 600 likes say that the replayability is awesome due to the fact that they spent 25 hours in the game. For me, it's good when you spend at least 70 or 80 hours in and for an RPG but yeah it's personal xD Since this is the first game of this company, anyways, all the more reason to praise the effort - everything is really at its right place and nothing has been left out for randomness or chaos. It's what I call a -complete- game in every detail! I think that even if you're like me way more towards turn-based (J)RPGs, this is a title that you cannot miss :) P.S. as always, if you're not an English speaker like me, stick with English - trust me xD","hours":46.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7296749775086092,"review":"Awesome, smooth gameplay. Perfect, relaxing soundtrack. Great story, told by a charismatic voice. What an immersive and atmospheric experience.  Loved the game, would buy again.","hours":39.1}
{"funny_percent":0.11627906976744186,"helpful_percent":0.7818769382051217,"review":"hack-and-slash game, checked deep story-line, checked awesome narration-based game, checked great game mechanic, checked beautiful soundtrack, checked maybe if only, this game is coop-campaign, that would be great...  Final Verdict: 10/10 a must buy indie game indeed!!!!","hours":10.9}
{"funny_percent":0.10810810810810811,"helpful_percent":0.7000399850016849,"review":"Bastion 2012  When Bastion came out it was at the beginning of the Indie craze. People were first starting to realize that amazingly fun games could come from tiny studios with no budget. Well now in 2017 the term Indie game has all but lost its meaning both financially, and terms of team size. But at the time, a game with such deep combat, definitive flavor, and overall polish was a treat.  Bastion does a good job of grabbing you with the colorful paint-style world that appears beneath your feet as you move forward. Every action you do is narrated by a grandfatherly voice that explains the story and smaller moments. There was a time early in the game when I walked off the edge of the platforms and the narrator said “And that’s the end of the Kid’s story….I’m just kidding.” And I respawn and he says “The kid goes back for another round.” It was a charming break of the 3rd wall. In addition to the narrator bringing the game to life, the music does a great job at capturing the alternate cartoon universe. A mix of western and oriental guitar give everything a nostalgic feel. One song was catchy enough that I was humming it even without thinking of the game. Usually music with lyrics and guitar seem out of place in games, but these just add to the feeling of the world.  The funny part is that this isn’t even the good part of the game. Even the story, which is surprisingly deep and touches on serious themes such as racism, genocide, and war, is merely window dressing. No, the real meat of the game is in the amazing combat. It is fluid and intuitive, and each enemy that has a unique way it needs to be defeated. There are a dozen or so weapons that are upgradeable and each has it’s own strengths and weaknesses against certain monsters. Defending and dodge-rolling are a must and it keeps combat fast even on the defensive. Tuck and roll, tuck and roll.   To really get the most out of this combat there is a mode where you take on waves of enemies for cash. This puts you in one square area against different types of enemies from through the story. On top of this add the difficulty modifiers. There are 10 Gods that can be invoked, each adding 10% gold 10% exp and some added challenge, ranging from increased enemy speed, to regenerating health. You can mix and match which hard modes you want to do, and you learn to adapt to them over time.  My first play though I mashed my way though the story without any hard modes and while it was fun it was closer an experience to diablo, every enemy was cannon fodder, I never had to defend, and every weapon felt overly powerful in my hands. It was fun and I was creating the base ground in which I would really enjoy the game. Once I turned on about half the added difficulties the game came into full form. The feeling of dodging each enemy, memorizing the enemy types and being able t keep track of all the enemies on screen at a time. It tapped into that zone where your not thinking you are just acting and it is beautiful and massively fun. It never feels cheap because you know the enemy types well enough  that it is your fault for not blocking.  Over all it is a fun game that presents itself excellently and I can see why this game was so important in defining what an “indie game” during the time when that was starting to mean real quality games from unknown studios. For someone who plays the game for a short period it feels complete, and for someone who sticks around longer it has more under it surface. In that way it feels like a proof of concept for indie games; Presented well, deep combat, unique art style, and some attempt at story. But unfortunately it proves what can be done and then leaves it at that. Give it a whirl, it only has so much to give, but what it gives is memorable. ","hours":33.3}
{"funny_percent":0.26666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.8910132683718867,"review":"Kid sits down. He writes a review for Bastion, one of many. Maybe someone that survived can read it. Someone sharper than a brusher's pike.... Or maybe someone as curious as a squirt.   Bastion is an amazing singleplayer experience that provides an exceptional story and impressive artistic design, with simple, but effective combat mechanics, amplified by it's interesting soundtrack. It was released in 2012.  Bastion is recieved high praise for it's story, which is told through a narrator. This form of storytelling was a new form of interactive media. In Bastion, a man narrates the actions of the protagonist, while also engaging the players in the lore of the world. This dialogue is vast, and there is a lot of narration throughout the game, which reveals the world to the players in an interesting and unique way. The interactivity can be seen when players simply play the game, which makes the game stand out. For example, if you flawlessly continue through a level, or if you defeat an enemy with a new weapon you found, or if you fell off a new level, you would get a unique piece of dialogue, adding to the theme of the game. There are hundreds of these conditional dialogue pieces, and even players that make mistakes can hear some unique dialogue as well, intensifying the bond between gameplay and narrative. Through this kind of narrative, players can learn about the world just by playing the game. Another example is the shrine. When you activate a god's shrine, it gives a short, but enticing, bit of dialogue that reveals a little bit more of the god to you. There's even a lot of text to go through, and lots of interesting descriptions to read about items that you find or use, and you are guaranteed to hear many different things by the time the game is complete. Another example of this narrative interactivity is even seen when picking weapons, as the narrator will make comments about the choice of weapons you have. Like if you pick a mortar and pike, or a mortar and carbine. Even the soundtrack is part of the story, as some music within the game actually is relevent to the game. On top of that, the soundtrack is quite good. The player also gets a little bit of choice through the story, as they can choose any weapon they have unlocked, activate any god to increase the difficulty, and there is an interesting moment where the player decides something. It's a post-apocalyptic world that feels like an adventure, yet there are moments where the player may learn about the sadder things in the world, as the game firmly grasps emotion, something that many games fail to do.  Bastion isn't a complex game. It has relatively simple controls, however, this doesn't mean the game is boring, by any stretch, as there are a good selection of different weapons, and players get the option to make the game more difficult. Players can also use 'drinks', which are passive effects that the player can choose to make them even stronger. Weapons are handed to the player as the game progresses, widening the level of choice players get as they move towards the end of the game, and players can also select upgrades for their weapons, and can choose which upgrades they want. For example, a player may opt for damage, or they may opt for more range. The combat itself is relatively enjoyable. Players can roll, use a shield to block and counterattack, use range or melee attacks, and pick from a variety of special abilities, and, as mentioned before, the game's difficulty can be increased for more fun, possibly making the game faster paced. The game is very easy to get into, which makes it a great choice for casual players, or people who don't have much time to begin with, as they won't have to deal with an unforgiving learning curve.  Bastion also has a very unique artistic style. It's a 2.5D game with great looking style throughout the entire game. There isn't a moment in the game that feels like it doesn't carry the theme of the rest of the game, and visually, it's easy to see that as players stroll through the menus, look at the loading screen, and explore the levels. Instead of the standard 3D world that you just walk around, Bastion's world is floating. Though there isn't really any platforming, it's a unique way to define current nature of the world, as it does become part of the game and the story. The top notch artwork complements the graphical style of the game, and at the same time, the game is not at all intensive to run. There aren't any super hardcore textures, and there aren't any hardcore lighting effects, as the game's graphic style makes it for it by being unique. This means that even 'non-gaming' PCs ( or Macs ) and Linux based systems can run this easily.     Personally, I believe Bastion to be a very solid title. It's not a triple A title, it's actually an indie game, and yet it's still recognized internationally to be a great title, despite being as small as it is. It's the kind of game that you have to try, even if you don't think you'll like it, and for good reason. Bastion is a great experience, and though you won't be getting hundreds of hours out of this title, every hour will be worth it, and worth a little bit more.","hours":19.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.807738463655517,"review":"Imagine a function that everyone's invited to. It's all over social media and touted as the biggest event of the year. You plan on going because all your friends and colleagues intend to, but days pass and you forget to RSVP. Your calendar stops functioning and you lose sight of all your big appointments. You press on regardless, making sure everything's ready prior to the big day as you frantically search for your invitation. Time goes by and you get distracted, forgetting about your plans and your schedule. You finally locate your invitation and head to the venue, only to find a fish and chip shop where a reception should be, and that the big event was held three years ago.  That's how late I am to this party.   Released in 2011, Bastion is a game that belies its indie origins, combining great gameplay with colourful art and an amazing soundtrack composed by Darren Korb, making for a complete package that puts some bug-ridden AAA games to shame. The haunting song that plays during the closing credits, Setting Sail, Coming Home, will likely remain in your head for days, along with the urge to keep playing.  Bastion is a lot of fun and I can't recommend it enough. If, like me, the game has been languishing in your \"to-play\" list for a while, waste no more time. Play it now. You won't regret it.","hours":16.7}
{"funny_percent":0.045454545454545456,"helpful_percent":0.8203398170423978,"review":"[Achievement Review for Achievements Hunters]  Good game for Hunters, medium difficulty to get the 100%, it will take you approximately 20-24 hours to complete it, this is mainly because you will have to finish the game twice, since at the end, you will have to choose one of two endings, and in the second playthrough you will have to choose the other.  It have a couple of achievements that will require a bit of skill, but nothing very complicated, these achievements are \"Hard Bargain\" and \"About the Author\" so you have a look if you believe you can do them, before you decide to go for this 100%, but it's not that hard.  I recommend this game to Hunters who are not only focused on completing games but also in enjoying good games, this game has a spectacular music that won many awards and also a solid story, so if you want to play something very good while you also increase your list of completed games, this game is for you.  Summary: Difficulty: 3 / 5 Fun to Complete: 4.5 / 5 Time to Complete: 20-24 Hours  Follow my Curator's page to see more of my achievements reviews","hours":20.5}
{"funny_percent":0.05714285714285714,"helpful_percent":0.7899946126525754,"review":"Bastion is an isometric action RPG with hand painted art.  You're \"the Kid\", a survivor of the Calamity. After you wake up, you do as supposed after a disaster and head to the Bastion, there, you find out the Bastion needs cores to work as intended and you are sent to explore what remains of the world in search of these. During your joruney, you'll face countless enemies, explore land no one has set foot on before, you'll also know more about the Calamity and when the time comes... Nevermindt,that'd ruin the surprise.  Long story short, this game has beautiful graphics, gorgeous music, a fancy narrator and flawless gameplay, I'll just go ahead and say it, this ladies and gentleman is perfection.  ★★★★★ | Loved it ","hours":21.2}
{"funny_percent":1.0666666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.718724690166557,"review":"Bastion is pretty cool, I suppose.   You play as the kid, a silent guy with white hair who likes to hit stuff with hammers and other weapons that aren't as good as the hammer. Some time before the events of the game, someone decided to pour pepsi and coke into the same glass and caused the calamity to happen, which killed a bunch of people and tore the world into cool narrative tool.   Bastion plays from an isometric perspective and, much like whenever I decide to leave my dumpster, is narrated by a strange old man wearing an apron. He has a very pleasant voice though. Outside of a few grunts and shouts, he's basically the only voice you hear through the entire game, narrating the things you do, the things you see, what people are saying, whats on the lunch menu, how much time we have until break, etc.   You fight with a two weapon load out with a few options for both buttons, things like hammers, spears, machetes, and flamethrowers go hand in hand with crossbows, bows, twin revolvers, a rifle...A-...A grenade launcher. Although the game lets you pick whatever weapon for whatever button, it usually pays off to have one melee and one ranged weapons on your adventure. Though quality in weapons changes dramatically, while some can smash your enemies to pieces, others you may as well be just write a sternly worded letter to them and mailing it via Canada Post.  The joke is the mail is never going to reach them.   Outside of your attacks, you also have two kinds of defence, a shield block and a dodge. The shield can negate most damage outside of obvious explosions or gas, if you time it right you can also get a counter where the enemy deals damage to themselves by attacking you like the stupid idiots they are. The dodge is actually pretty nifty and will work as long as you actually roll out of the attack instead of into it like you would in other games.   If I had to twist my nipples at anything bad about this game I would say that your movement speed is so slow that you may as well be walking on the ground with those stupid bucket suction cup foot things you played with in kindergarten. And the game is so short it probably has trouble getting on any of the fun rides at Disney World.   But should you play Bastion?   You probably already have, considering how popular this game was back in the day. If you haven't I would give it at least one go, it's pretty fun, but I don't know how long that fun will last past one playthrough. if you can get it for the price of...I don't know, premium instant noodles? Then I would say go for it.  Gas station gets 7 smooth narrator voices out of a possible 10.   It is illegal to climb trees in Oshawa, a town in Ontario, Canada.  The curator: http://steamcommunity.com/groups/Dickbuttexperience#curation ","hours":5.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8453518803629418,"review":"Price paid for game: $3.74 (75% off)  Summery Bastion is a combat focused RPG set in a post-apocalyptic world. You play as someone only referred to as \"The Kid\", and start the game on a floating rock in the sky with no explanation as to why or how you are there. A lot of the game's charm comes from its narrator, who reveals all the mysteries of the Calamity throughout your play through.  Pros The game has both keyboard and controller controls. Even though it is highly recommended to use a controller, the game's two weapon system works wonderfully with a mouse (having M1 and M2). The game's combat runs seamlessly. No matter the combination of weapons and Secret Skills you chose. The narration is perfect. Not only is the narrator's voice amazing, but he also says different voice lines depending on what weapons you have, who you are fighting, what thing you just smashed, what environmental hazard hurt you, and so on. Because \"The Kid\" doesn't speak, the only form of narration is this man, so it's nice to see all the effort put in to make listening to him enjoyable. The story. The game starts you off with not much information, as is the nature of Super Giant's games. A lot of the story is told through the narrator, but a lot more is told through collectable mementos. You can talk to the other characters about these items to reveal stories about the Calamity and their backstory. Challenges. The game provides many options for increased difficulty, including a New Game+ mode, 10 different enemy-empowering idols, and \"Dream\" levels. The idols all give enemies a unique power or stat boost in exchange for increased xp and currency rewards. The \"Dreams\" you can visit unlock throughout the game. They are waves of enemies with limited Health Potions and Black Tonics. While you play through a dream level, more backstory is told about a character. These \"Dreams\" become very challenging once you activate all 10 idols. The upgrade system. Every weapon has 10 different upgrades, 2 in every stage. The game allows you to pick one upgrade from every stage, meaning you have 5 upgrades at the maximum. The game allows you to freely swap these upgrades and experiment with something new. The game has a nice set of achievements, although you will have to get very good at the game to collect them all. Cons The combat system gets a bit boring in New Game+, especially after activating some idols. At this point, enemies are very strong so just getting hit can end up in a horrible situation, so playing defensively is the only option. The game does have a counter-attack system, and it works fine until the game shows you how horrible it's lock on targeting can be. If you hold your shield up, it automatically points you at an enemy. Sometimes it's the right enemy, most times it isn't. it makes the shield almost useless against swarms and hopeless in the \"Dream\" stages. Keyboard movement is tedious. The game is isometric, but it isn't at a 45 degree angle. For example, if I held [D] and [W], I'd expect to go diagonally upwards along the platform, but in this game it doesn't line up like that, meaning you have to constantly adjust yourself while doing something as simple as walking. The game does have one hidden achievement that can only be obtained if you own Portal, and it is of medium difficulty to obtain as it involves a little RNG. Final Thoughts The game is great, but I would only recommend it if you enjoy playing a game for the story. Otherwise the games minor flaws will point themselves out to you and ruin your experience. Highly recommend if you love story driven RPG's, this is a must play for you. Thank you for reading my review, I hope you have a nice day ^-^","hours":17}
{"funny_percent":0.12658227848101267,"helpful_percent":0.8482775899443866,"review":"when i first played this game, i could count my age on my fingers, and i remember my dad telling me when i asked to get this \"i dont think you will like this game very much\". he was wrong in every meaning of the word. i played this game to a pulp, and even now, many years later, the game still stands as one of my favorite games of all time. a soundtrack mozart would shed a tear to, a story shakespeare couldnt write. more options and potential than a box of lego's, and artwork that da vinci would envy. all in all, i reccomend this game to anyone with the time, and honestly, i'd say youd be missing out if you decided to overlook this absolute masterpiece.","hours":23.1}
{"funny_percent":0.13043478260869565,"helpful_percent":0.8536209276133595,"review":"Narration, graphics and soundtrack. These are the main terms used when people talk about this game. What will strike your mind when you first start this game is the harmonic voice of the narrator. Better get used to it because he will bombard you with endless commentary about the schizophrenic post-apocalyptic surroundings, lore and travails of our silent protagonist. The narration is rugged, dramatic and quite serious. I mean, just look at the place, it is torn asunder. The game itself provides mainly action-filled gameplay with a bit of RPG-ing with collecting weapons, resources and lore items. You can use the resources to upgrade your weapons in endless variations. The playthrough is not very difficult and you can finish the game with your favourite weapons, but the difficulty rises significantly in the Proving Grounds and in the free DLC challenge mode where most builds don't work very well. What I liked most about this game has to be the soundtrack. When the narrator gets a bit annoying near the end (mainly because the story doesn't stand up much to the other factors of the game), the soundtrack never ceases to surprise you. It combines many styles and some tracks became one of my all-time favourites. 7.5/10","hours":26.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9631183422787439,"review":"In many ways, Bastion reminds me of BioShock: there's some good weapon and power customization, but the real star of the show is the world: a floating city torn apart before I even knew it existed, and one that I'm eager to explore.  That exploration makes up the bulk of the game: travelling through different areas and hacking-and-slashing baddies while gathering the necessary supplies to upgrade and enhance the titular Bastion. A sort of fantasy fallout shelter, the Bastion functions like a hub world between the levels.  Bastion has a great soundtrack, good story and overall good narration. The narrative side of Bastion is what makes it unique.","hours":7.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7473159355894189,"review":"Intro: Bastion is an isometric action-adventure game with an absolutely incredible visual style, fun and engaging combat, an engrossing narrative told by survivors of worlds that collided. One of the core elements of Bastion is exploration and discovering the truth of the new world. You can uncover more through mementos, ash remains of old friends and folks long past, and the narration of a stranger. The narration is remarkably well done and manages to convey so much without too much repetition. They have tons of variations for even the small things like visiting a challenge area multiple times.   Gameplay: Combat is very customizable and can suit pretty much any combat style if you invest enough shards of the old world into your weapons. Each weapon has different strengths and benefits, as well as varying timings to excel with; this makes the combat extremely reactive and very skill oriented. The only complaint I have regarding combat is the order with which you unlock certain weapons. I think it could have had the player decide at least a few times what weapon to make/unlock and help them find their preferred play style more quickly. I tried pretty much every weapon and upgraded them all at least once, but I definitely found a few that I preferred over others.   I did have a little trouble distinguishing the actual level from the background at times due to perspective; some partially destroyed walls looked to be traversable and I would roll off into the oblivion as a result.  Story: I won't go into much detail regarding the story as I think all players should experience it for themselves. In my opinion, there are a few minor faults to the story, but they don't matter much and are just slightly inconsistent with the setting/world more than anything seriously problematic. Thematically, Bastion's narrative has very clear and strong writing that the player can influence with how they approach the challenges set before them. Some examples follow: If you choose to remove all the pests from an area, the narrator will remark on it; just keep running and ignore the enemies if you want, etc.  Audio: Without a doubt, Supergiant Games created one of the very best sound designs and soundtrack I've ever heard for any artistic medium. It blends so many different styles and musical instruments that it just feels completely different and fresh when you discover a new track. I spent quite a lot of time just enjoying the music when I unlocked the gramophone, which lets you listen to any of the game's soundtracks.   Value & Time: I spent around 10 hours to do most of the content available in the first playthrough, while unlocking 11 of the 24 achievements. My plans are to play through some of New Game Plus to see the new content that is only playable in that mode, but I don’t think I’ll play through the whole game again right now.  Overall: Bastion gets a Highly Recommended and is an extremely polished title that pretty much anyone will enjoy. This is an incredible, memorable adventure that more people need to play through.","hours":15.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.768618029981897,"review":"Got this game years ago. Even though it hasn't been played in some time, it's still installed.  The narrator is one of the best that I have heard.","hours":15.8}
{"funny_percent":1.028169014084507,"helpful_percent":0.8560708567380747,"review":"The Kid thought that maybe the game was bad.  Nah, I'm just foolin'.","hours":33}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8595427878892699,"review":"After playing this game through twice and achieving both endings I can safely say that this has one of the very best stories ever! The soundtrack and beautiful art style make it so addicting and I just want to play it through over and over again. Probably one of the very best indie games out there.","hours":16}
{"funny_percent":0.04878048780487805,"helpful_percent":0.8398242600735004,"review":"Ah, good times. Beautiful graphics and soundtracks made me fell in love in the first sight. Smacking monsters while listening to a soothing voice, telling you an intriguing story... The only downside to that is you can't really focus on the story when you're busy dealing with enemies.  But whatever, you can just go and play it again. Totally worth it.","hours":10.5}
{"funny_percent":0.14285714285714285,"helpful_percent":0.9208131191265854,"review":"Summary/ Overview Bastion was published by Warner Brothers Interactive entertainment, a subdivision of Warner Brothers, Inc. developed by Supergiant Games, the studio also behind Transistor. Bastion is an action role-playing game with a ubiquitous narrator. You play as the Kid in Bastion who is given no specific name at all while you uncover what has happened to the Bastion after the calamity. The Bastion is the center marketplace you could say in the game that regenerates the life of the whole community. Through going back to the Bastion you can upgrade your weapons, skills; buy more idols through the lost-and-found, pay respects to the memorial of fallen people that have passed away through completing different tasks, switch out weapons in the arsenal and one of my favorite places to go, being the distillery where you can buy potions that give you statistic bonuses and added health, carrying capacity.  Gameplay (Features, controls, graphics & mechanics) Features  Locations There are many locations within the game and I want to touch briefly on a few. The few worth mentioning are The Wharf District, Trappers Shingle and the Hanging Gardens. These are among the first few districts you will visit when trying to collect cores. The cores are used in the Bastion, at the central monument in order to build add-ons to the Bastion since it got destroyed after the calamity.   The Wharf district You obtain your first main weapon, the breaker's bow, your first memento which are collectible items that either tell you some history about the culture or rather are commodities, fragments of materials that you need in order to craft weapon upgrades. You will learn your first special move and the basics in this area. The first special move is a whirlwind which you use with your basic weapon you start out with called the crael hammer. You are thrown immediately into the action as the story starts wherein the main character, Kid, has no idea how he got here through the Bastion, the safe haven and shelter of the town. The rippling walls remains transversed as you walk. Once you start walking forward down a certain particular path, the path expands as you walk. You learn that the calamity has happened and currently search to see if anyone else except you survived the calamity. If you are the only one that survived the calamity, then why did all the other cultures and races of people get wiped out?  Trappers Shingle Trappers Shingle is a very dangerous place in the game but the most unique. You have to run from the start to the finish of the whole area while watching platforms crumbling below your very feet. You need to hit targets on the sides before you proceed since everything has basically been tripwired in order to make you fall to your inevitable death. Good luck! You do receive a prize for your efforts based on how quickly you make it to the end. This is all dependent upon the time it takes you as well as any penalties in case you fall off the map.  The Hanging Gardens  The Hanging Gardens is a place that honors the dearly departed, those that have died in the calamity. You meet a strange man named Zulf while everyone else is frozen in time, so frozen you can actually hit them and they disintegrate. Zulf is quite the character that later destroys the Bastion once again making your life hard after the calamity. Why is everyone frozen, does Zulf have special powers or rather has this dystopian alternate universe been created because of the after effects of the calamity putting a curse on the towns and all the people in it? You will have to play along to find out the final answer as the story progresses.  Fully Destructible Environment Everything in the game from pillars, pieces of walls, crates, barrels and enemies can be destroyed. You only get experience points for destroying enemies and boxes.  Unique, Dismal, Comical Narration I will be honest with you on this one, I am not a fan of the narration throughout the whole game. The narrator's tone and voice distracts too much away from the nice music and enemy encounters, lush environments.  Water-colored, Hand-Painted, Crafted Environments All in all, the art style is unique and does a good job attesting to the fact that video games are inspired art made for a manifest and also a latent function.  Experience Points/ Skill Based System It has an experience point system which you get by destroying objects and enemies  Controls Controls are very well done. I recommend using a controller since it feels most comfortable  Pros & Cons  Pros •Nice artwork within the game's environment with solid graphics all around •Polished enemy variety with unique moves and abilities •Engaging story and premise of a world fallen and cursed through a time period known as the calamity •Fully destructible environments that oscillate location to location •Fun and relaxing to play •Great boss battles  Cons •Narration is ok in my personal opinion, but it personally is just not my style  Overall- 8 Highly rated and recommended because it really is an amazing game that is worth all of your time and effort. Warner Brothers Interactive make some of the best games that I like to date.  Key 1-3 = poor 4-5 = ok 6-7 = good 8-10= amazing  For more objective non-biased reviews, please visit my other account TheDragonsNiche(2)  Alternate Steam PC Account Link https://steamcommunity.com/id/InsightfulJourney ","hours":7.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7841836330211788,"review":"Put simply, Bastion is a piece of art. Seriously. The soundtrack, atmosphere, artwork, story and voice acting are all fantastic! All of it combined create an experience ready for the player to enjoy a few hours of happy immersion. The way the game progresses is beautifully well made and all the different weapons gives the player the power to play through this game as however we want. I don't have anything bad to say about it and recommended it to everyone who enjoys a great game. Really, I'm only sad that I've waited more than 5 years to play this. Get it as soon as possible!  ➡️️Final Rating: 9/10","hours":6.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.717933016891503,"review":"Simple to play, yet deep and compelling. A wonderful storyline narrated perfectly as you play. Some of the artwork and music here is better than a great deal of AAA games today.  Takes around 20 hours to 100% all achievements because 2 and a half playthroughs is needed. I wasted a lot of time getting About the Author (Complete the Stranger's Dream with all ten Shrine Idols invoked), VERY tricky.","hours":33.6}
{"funny_percent":0.037037037037037035,"helpful_percent":0.937453246752861,"review":"10/10  One of the best soundtracks out there. Deep upgrade system. Stoney atmosphere. Addicting.   100% recommend.","hours":10.5}
{"funny_percent":0.4094488188976378,"helpful_percent":0.8001314264140479,"review":"Why is this 6 year old game updating right now?","hours":3.6}
{"funny_percent":0.11627906976744186,"helpful_percent":0.7738020464488204,"review":"Great game!! great story, great gameplay, and the soundtrack is just WOOW!!! worth the price","hours":21.4}
{"funny_percent":0.017543859649122806,"helpful_percent":0.7998361320918501,"review":"One of my Favorite game of all time, Great buy and if you like this you'll love Transistor also which recently released from the same group, this is the game that started it all.  + Great Narration and storytelling + Phenominal music + Fast pace platform action game with variety of weapons + Great handdrawn art + Fun gameplay, platforming arcade style + Great use of different ways to change game difficulty and challenges to unlock upgrades  - Not much in replayability - Need online play some sort of vs for replayability.","hours":18.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.817460970327894,"review":"Bastion is a truly fantastic game. This one had been on my radar for a while, and I was lucky enough to grab it at a discount. I have to say, though, that after playing it, it's worth every penny at full price.   There's truly something for everyone here. It's got RPG elements, beautiful world design, post-apocalyptic storyline, hack and slash \"everything dies\" free-for-alls, weapon mechanics, challenging achievements, and an intriguing story with heavy moral choices along the way.   The full controller support couldn't function any more perfectly, and the graphics are astounding. The soundtrack is also excellent and seems to enhance the experience even more. Characters are multi-dimensional, and combat is dynamic. There's definite replayability here, as well as many challanging, yet fun, achievements.  The Stranger is beyond a doubt my favorite character, and it seems that a lot of thought went into character development and world-building. It's a fantastical combination of old West and ethereal fantasy realm.   This looks like a game that was designed by gamers who just happen to know how to create video games. It's got so many wonderful elements strung together that it's very likely that the developers sat down to design and code a game that they themselves would enjoy playing. I have to say, they hit the ball way out of the park with Bastion.  Without spoiling anything, I'll just add that a cerebral gamer will find other hidden gems in the storyline. I found myself speculating about time paradoxes, time travel, self-fulfilling prophecies, and the identity of The Stranger. I'm so fascinated with this game that I'm beginning my second playthrough now. I highly recommend it.","hours":120.9}
{"funny_percent":0.06666666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.9664113376274166,"review":"First of all, I think \"The Bastion\" sounds better than \"Bastion\" , with that being said, lets get into the review.  The game begins with the protagonist \"The Kid\" waking up from his sleep on his floating bed/home place while \"The Calamity\" has wreaked havoc in \"Caelondia\". The game doesnt use dialogue instead it relies on narration so there's that. And the game plays from a top-down perspective, so if you dont like that, i guess this one's not for you.  Graphics : I like the art-style of the game, but I think its subjective and depends on your taste. I also like how all the land-pieces pop-up like some fog-of-war mechanic from strategy games. I guess it adds a certain kind of surprise value to the levels.  Gameplay : The gameplay is this game's best aspect. The weapon variety is brilliant and all of the weapons actually feel unique (Breaker Bow FTW). The upgrading system is pretty standard and nothing significant. I also really liked the proving ground challenges (they are these levels where your proficiency with a particular weapon is tested). Another thing I'd like to add here is that, the upgrade points in this game, i.e, Fragments, are actually pieces of the Bastion before The Calamity, so this means that when you destroy like pots and stuff, it actually makes sense that they give Fragments. I mean, its not anything great, but just a simple observation. Rest of the stuff is pretty standard and that's that.  Story : The story is actually good, but I feel like they still didn't explain it well enough (It might just be me because I'm kinda slow at picking this stuff up, but still I stand by my view). The ending (or rather endings) were ♥♥♥♥ing awesometacular (its an RPG, so expect multiple endings), they were well thought-out and it feels like there is no right choice, both of them end up in the morally grey area, like how Mark Of The Ninja's ending was and that IMO is fantastic. The narration aspect works really well in the majority of the game, but sometimes it feels like dialogue would've been better. There's enough backstory to provide good character depth and to understand each of the character's motivations. (Sorry if there were any spoilers)  Soundtrack : The soundtrack is very good but at times it feels a bit under-used. For the most part of the game, there's only ambient music in the background which although is good, gets boring after a while. There is some really good music in this game, but it only \"appears\" at a few places throughout the entire course of the game, which I think is diappointing, but still the soundtack is a pro first and con later.  Voice Acting : There is only one voice actor to judge in this game, i.e, The Narrator/Rucks and he is awesome. That more than sums up his work.  All in all, this game is not a must-get, but most definitely worth-it. And its often on sale, so pick it up then.  Rating : I'd rate this one 8 Squirts out of a possible 10  Final Word : Scumbags. Them damn Scumbags.  Edit : After finishing the game a second time, I gotta make some changes, the soundtrack of the game was absolutely brilliant and not underused as I previously thought. Also, I gotta improve the rating to a 9 Squirts out of a possible 10  (I used way too many quotes, didnt I? )","hours":21.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7677224260456196,"review":"Bastion is an action adventure game (and a good one at that), with simple yet well implemented mechanics and some RPG elements. It would be only one more good entry to this beloved category, but its outstanding narration and soundtrack bring this game one step ahead. The net result is something remarkable.","hours":11.2}
{"funny_percent":0.96,"helpful_percent":0.7813202200709324,"review":"Kid writes a review, and isn't too sure what to say. Ten outa ten, best game of the year, or a fine work of art, words of praise that's hollow with no real meaning. You could say this kid wants to write about the solid gameplay, engaging story, beautiful world, amazing soundtrack, and a fine narration. But the kid knows better... The game left him feeling satisfied in the end, no one can say he had a bad time. But all phrases and words just don't cut it for the Kid, so he'll leave it like this, Bastion made him happy like a Scumbag with a full stomach.","hours":18.7}
{"funny_percent":0.07142857142857142,"helpful_percent":0.7027099624510035,"review":"Product received for free  This game is a little gem among the Indie category...  It is linear, but the sotry is good enough and gameplay is super cool. Lots of levels for a smaller budget game, many cool unique weapons you can use, upgreades you can buy and runes that will make the game more challanging, but at the same time it will reward you. High replay value, due to the upgreade system... What can I say more?  + Loot, upgreade and runes that modify the gameplay. - A little bit too linear. Yep buy it if you into Indie games, and with a discount it is even more worth it!","hours":7.1}
{"funny_percent":1.7735849056603774,"helpful_percent":0.7336463320253562,"review":"Awesome Gameplay? Hell Yeah!!  Awesome Story? Hell Yeah!!  Awesome Soundtrack? F***ing Hell Yeah!!  Awesome Character Development? F***ing Hell Yeah!!  Awesome Weapon and Upgrades? Hell F***ing Yeah!! Awesome Looking Game? F***ing HELL YEAH!! Awesome Narration That Turns You On For No Reason? GOD DAMN HELL YEAH!!  Awesome Replayability Value? Holy Smoke Batman Hell F***ing Yeah!!  Total Score: ITS OVER 9000!!","hours":35.4}
{"funny_percent":0.041666666666666664,"helpful_percent":0.9193017051565191,"review":"There is no way you wouldn't love it. Bastion is a beautiful game in which each element fits properly.  The hack and slash gameplay is fun and amplified by leveling up your character, improving your weapons, and making the game harder through idols. There's so much to discover.  The story is traditional stuff, but I was wrapped up in the experience from the main menu to the credits thanks to leaderboards, easy to navigate menus, and more. Just a beautiful world. The characters are detailed, the colors are rich, and the world forming underneath the kid's feet is a nice touch. The sound effects, the score, and the narrator (Cunningham's sensational debut role) are all excellent. The game after the first time tells you that there are still many things to do before you eventually turn it off. Try it for yourself and fall in love.","hours":11}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9137146196574949,"review":"If you are a PC Gamer and have somehow managed to go this long without playing Bastion, I want you to stop reading this review, and buy this game. I'm serious. Do it now.  Now that you have done that, let me explain why.  Bastion is nothing short of a masterpiece. Visually stunning, deeply engaging narrative, bowstring tight controls, and one of the most poignant soundtracks I have ever heard in a game. I have literally nothing to criticize and nothing but the highest praise to offer.  As a game designer, this is the kind of game I one day dream of making, It's just that good.  So, get it. You won't regret it.","hours":3.8}