{"review":"This game's greatest strength is its replayability and sustaining value. It may be one of the highest hour-to-dollar ratios in single-player gaming.  If you are the kind of gamer who reacts to a difficult challenge with a determination to conquer it, you will love the way this game continues to challenge, and challenge, and challenge further.   If you are the kind of gamer who goes into a game looking for suprises and discovery, you will be continuously pleased every time you find a cool new room, a game-changing item, crazy synergies between those items, and the games plaethora of well hidden secrets.   If you are the kind of gamer who loves to hunt achievements, this game will not only please you with the gargantuan number of achievements on display, but also in how the game integrates them with the core gameplay, rewarding you with in-game unlocks for almost every single achievement.  If you are the kind of gamer who just wants a game they can turn on whenever, wherever, and enjoy a short but enjoyable gaming session, this game is perfect. If you are in this category, buy it on the Switch if you have one.  If you are the kind of gamer that likes more casual experiences, that becomes very disheartened by dying or losing, is squeamish around gross imagery, or who doesn't want to have to look things up online, then you might find this game doesn't suit your tastes. One feature common amoung content rich games like this, Don't Starve or Minecraft is that they are often very hard to penetrate due to their emphasis on experimentation and unexplained features, requiring wiki usage, and other McMillen games like Super Meat Boy often deter those that justifiably claim \"This game is too hard\" or \"This game is gross!\" While very fun and rewarding to the kinds of gamers listed above, and highly recommended, do beware that if you are in this category, I do not recommend this game.","hours":279.8,"funny_percent":0.021148036253776436,"helpful_percent":0.9639140651225243}
{"review":"After 2000 hours played (with a few hundred on the original Flash version) I guess I should write a review.  This is a good game. I think you should buy it.","hours":3005.4,"funny_percent":0.5009225092250923,"helpful_percent":0.9059040590405905}
{"review":"The Most fun you can legally have with a naked child","hours":1441.7,"funny_percent":3.1455748552522746,"helpful_percent":0.8726220016542597}
{"review":"This is everything a remake should be: More items, more characters, more challenges, more bosses... More everything. My computer is old and chugs with games like Minecraft and Team Fortress 2, but Isaac: Rebirth runs silky smooth.   Three words:  Buy. This. Game.","hours":648.6,"funny_percent":0.07028531663187196,"helpful_percent":0.9457202505219207}
{"review":"My first attempts at The Binding of Isaac resulted in me repeated dying in the first room I entered. Almost 2000 hours later in game I can now sometimes survive as the lost. Despite the frustration of dying A LOT, the challenge of getting further and further in game was what kept me returning day after day. Two years later it is still my most commonly played game.  With this many hours of enjoyment I feel like a review is long overdue.    Music - 5/5  I absolutely love the soundtrack for this game and it complements the theme of the game. Each floor has it's own unique tracks and ambient sounds which give a great atmosphere.   Standout tracks: Delirum, Diptera Sonata & Ascension (Chest Fight)    Graphics - 3/5  This is very much down to personal taste - I originally played the flash version of Binding of Isaac and once Rebirth came out with the pixel graphics I immediately hated it. It felt like a lot of the charm was gone. The art style has grown on me over time but I do still miss the old graphics.     Playability - 5/5  Giving this game any less than a 10 for me is impossible. In about 2000 hours I've run into a couple of bugs but rarely have they caused me to lose a run. The only memorable on is when using Dead Cat on a Sacrifice room it caused the game to crash but I've not had that occur in quite some time.   The controls were initally hard for me to get used to but they are simple and you do get used to them fairly quickly. I use a keyboard but have attempted the game with a controller but I found it a bit odd after having played so much of the game with the keyboard. Some friends have found it easier with controller when starting but I suppose that comes down to personal preference.    TOTAL: 13/15  The Binding of Isaac is fun (albeit, hard at times) game with a lot of charm. It's given me quite literally thousands of hours of enjoyment.","hours":2374.7,"funny_percent":0.048027444253859346,"helpful_percent":0.9451114922813036}
{"review":"Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is a remake of Binding of Isaac with new graphics, new mechanics, new monsters, new items and every aspect of the game has been enhanced. New content has been added everywhere possible, the game feels infinitely smoother, is so much nicer to play, and has many more hours of content to keep you satisfied for longer. If you enjoyed the original Binding of Isaac, Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is going to be infinitely better and I can promise instant satisfaction. This review will consist of comparisons between the original and Rebirth, what’s good, what’s bad, possible changes and just an overall look at various aspects of the game including everything that comes to mind. It is often a bit rambly, because I talk extensively about every detail I like and every component that irks me. For a full recommendation of the game and a continuation of the review, visit the last paragraph.  A basic introduction to Binding of Isaac overall is an attempt to run away from your Mother who is trying to kill you. You run into the basement, where you find various items which can be beneficial, harmful or simply useless to your overall goal of surviving. You shoot the enemies with your tears to kill them while running away from them and their tears to avoid taking damage. Once you die, that run is over. The game is perma-death, so you have to start again from scratch. The game is also absolutely disgusting. There isn’t too much blood, but knowing that these monsters have lived in your dusty old basement, been transformed into ugly mutilated creatures and that this is what becomes of you as you take pills and pick up items is gross. Once you get past the horrid enemies, the game is pretty simple and is extremely fun to all who like the challenge of a game like this..   This game has a bunch of different characters, all of which have different unique aspects. Some characters are easier to play than others, which in the eyes of many people, makes those characters more fun. I wish the characters were more balanced, but it’s very rarely possible to have 10 different characters you can play as that all play with equal difficulty. There are bound to be some easier, more fun and more interesting characters, and that’s what makes them unique. Something that’s missing from the classes however, is all the characters being unique. Some of the playstyles of the characters feel too similar, and some of the things that made characters unique in the original Binding of Isaac have disappeared in Rebirth.  Samson no longer starts with a soul heart along with 1 red heart, an interesting aspect of Samson that made him a challenge in the original game. Rather, he starts with 3 red hearts, probably to accompany the change in the item of Bloody Lust making it a damage output increase relative to the amount of damage taken for the entire floor. This is an interesting change, but it makes Samson more of a tanky character, similar to Magdalene, rather than the weaker character with more potential. I believe a better change would have been to give Samson a spacebar item and keep his stats the same as they are in the original, and the effect of Bloody Lust relative to the amount of kills you get while still maintaining it’s effect over the floor.  Lucky Foot, the item that made Cain a fun character to play in the original, has been significantly nerfed, making Cain a character that lacks a truly unique aspect. While Lucky Foot is still a luck up, a single luck increase does not have much of an effect as most items that use luck to work require a lot of it to work extremely well. If the Lucky Foot could still make the Fortune Machine work all the time, or at least most of the time, and increase the luck stat by multiple points rather than just one, Cain would be a much more interesting character to play and much more unique.  A good addition to Rebirth is that all the stats are finally given good use and are recorded. The luck stat is used in everything it should, with a bunch of items now using the luck stat to perform more efficiently, all methods of gambling in the game being affected by luck and it now being shown on the pause screen when you press escape. They’ve also shown all the stats, including shot speed and luck as previously mentioned, on the pause screen, which were not there in the original game.  There are some enemies in the game that have been made impossible to fight. Bloat is a boss that shoots brimstone like lasers out of his eyes, which wasn’t too bad in the original but in this game there is no ‘tell’ (something that means he’s going to do a certain attack) for when he is going to shoot it, and before you can move out of the way, there is a laser and you’ve been hit. The same thing applies to the Lumps in the womb and the Mom eyes in the red champion Mom fight, which shoot instantly upon popping up and you have no time to react to the high speed shot. There are a lot of enemies that do similar things, and still a lot of rooms remain where it’s almost impossible to leave without taking damage.  Something I noticed that’s new in Rebirth is that everything from the original now has an equivalent. Every form of fly-related enemy now has a spider version that does the same thing, and a lot of similar aspects like that. It makes the game more uniform, because now there are a lot more interesting spiders which were missing from the original game and a lot of new versions of both flies and spiders which add a lot to the challenge of learning new elements of the game.  Easily one of the best new additions in Rebirth is the ability to save your progress in a run. You can stop it at any time, close the game, and start again from where you left off at a later point. You can’t start another run while in the middle of a previous one without overriding the previous run’s data, but it’s still an extremely useful feature, since in the previous game we had to leave the game running to continue a round of BoI.  One of the more fun new additions is rooms of varying sizes. They aren’t anything like a random size, but they can now be a single normal room, as all the rooms were in the original BoI, they can be double rooms extended either horizontally or vertically, and they can even be quadruple rooms that extend in both directions. The animation for travelling through such rooms can apparently cause motion sickness, and it can be turned off by changing something in one of the files (I’m not quite sure what). Personally, I quite like the animation, and it makes moving around large rooms extremely fun.  Overall, this game is easily worth the $15 if you liked the original Binding of Isaac, and at the time of the making of this review there was no DLC released (if there ever will be any), so that might be added in the future. This is an action packed perma-death roguelike with infinite replayability and hundreds of hours of gameplay to unlock all the achievements and secrets. As Steam limits the size of community reviews, you can find the rest of my review here[1drv.ms].  In the rest of the review, I go over: Synergies Chained/Boarded Rooms Ludovico Technique Boss Rush rooms Multiplayer ","hours":356.2,"funny_percent":0.06683804627249357,"helpful_percent":0.9408740359897172}
{"review":"+ The amount of stuff to grab and to do, insane + New engine blows the old Isaac out of the water (fire effects, shadows, etc.) + Game is amazingly smooth and clean + Too many achievements to count for + Too many hours spent in perspective + Best poop simulator EVER!  - Incompatible with social life outside the PC. - UPDATE: Had the music on the \"+\" but moved it here. Sounded incredible on the first run but on the long run it's kinda grating. Makes me miss Danny's amazing soundtrack.","hours":263.4,"funny_percent":0.06699346405228758,"helpful_percent":0.9150326797385621}
{"review":"If you get into this game you will no longer find it weird when people say things like 'I hope I'll get proptosis' 'Cancer! Great!' 'I'm not sure if I wanna pick up dead cat' 'Headless baby, it's an okay pickup' 'I should be able to kill mom' there's like 350 items, lots of bosses, enemies, synergies,characters,challenges and it has a lot of replay value, all that cool stuff you want in a video game  the soundtrack is nice too","hours":340.4,"funny_percent":1.5456081081081081,"helpful_percent":0.9155405405405406}
{"review":"1 And it came to pass after these things, that Edmund McMillen did tempt gamers, and said unto them, gamers: and he said, Behold, here I am.  2 And he said, Take now thy cash, thine only cash till next pay period, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Steam or Sony; and offer it there for 10 to 15 USD (dependent upon loyalty discount), offering upon one of the consoles which I will tell thee of.  3 And the gamers rose up early in the morning, and saddled their Honda Civics, and took two new Taco Bell Breakfast Crunchwraps, and their cash, and rose up, and went unto the place of which Edmund had told them.  4 Then on what felt like the billionth day the gamers lifted up their eyes, and saw the place afar off.  5 And they said unto their Crunchwraps, Abide ye here with the Honda Civics; and I and the cash will go yonder and worship, and come again to you.  6 And the gamers took their cash; and they went both of them together.  7 And the cash spake unto the gamers, their owners, and said, My owners: and they said, Here am I, my cash. And he said, Behold the cart, full: but where is the cash for offering?  8 And the gamers said, My cash, Edmund McMillen will provide himself cash for an offering: so they went both of them together, because mediums of exchange are incapable of critical thinking.  9 And they came to the place which Edmund had told them of; and the gamers chilled there, and placed the order, and bound their cash and laid him on the altar of purchase.  10 And the gamers stretched forth their hands, and inched their cursors towards confirmation.  11 And Tyrone Rodriguez called unto gamers out of Nicalis, and said, gamers, gamers: and he said, Here am I.  12 And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the cash, neither do thou any thing unto it: for now I know that thou fearest cancellation; seeing thou hast not withheld thy cash, thine only cash for this pay period.  13 And the gamers lifted up their eyes, and looked, and behold behind him a northern lion: and the gamers went and took the northern lion, and criticized him for taking Mom's Knife, in stead of their cash.  14 And the gamers called that game Rebirth: as it is said to this day, In the mount of Indie it shall be seen.  The Binding of Isaac, released back in 2011, is a rogue-like indie darling that wears its Zelda influences on its sleeves. You play as Isaac, a young boy living with his mother. His mother, convinced she is being spoken to by God, must offer Isaac up to prove her love and devotion to Him. Isaac, in an understandable act of defiant self-interest, descends into the basement to escape. It's there that the game begins. You fight all manner of monstrosities down below, ranging from hideous pin worms, cleft-lipped disembodied heads, physical manifestations of the Seven Deadly Sins, and the Horsemen of the Apocalypse.   You start fighting the denizens of your basement with your tears – yes, this game is a strange one – but as you progress you'll find unlockables (in stores, treasure rooms, arcades, etc.) that change your tear effects, sometimes drastically (and sometimes your appearance). To win you have to juggle health, bombs, keys, and money. You'll have to find secret rooms (and secreter rooms!). And of course, you'll have to fight... well, I won't spoil THAT. Suffice it to say you'll have some options. As you play, succeed, and succumb, you'll unlock items and characters for each subsequent playthrough. On top of that, items you find and unlock, enemies you encounter, and floor layouts all change with each descent – effectively making every run unique. The Binding of Isaac is one of the most highly replayable games around, with many players logging in hundreds if not thousands of hours.  It's a troubling trend lately that games have been getting the HD rerelease treatment so quickly after initial launch. The Last of Us, Tomb Raider, Sleeping Dogs, Metro – all have come out recently, all have had rereleases in fairly quick succession. It's no secret that gamers are suckers for a good dose of nostalgia, and that we're willing to pay top dollar for games we loved years ago that haven't necessarily weathered the passing of time so well. Now publishers are testing gaming goodwill with the constant stream of HD ports, definitive editions, remasters, and remakes.  It's been three years since Isaac's first appearance, and now he's back in The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth. And just like way back in 2011 when he first burst onto the scene, he's stolen the show yet again. I've explained the core mechanics and features of the game in a previous paragraph, so I won't get all redundant on you. Instead I'll tell you what's new in Rebirth. New enemies, regular and boss types. New floor layouts. Bigger floors. New items. New trinkets (items you carry with you that result in an effect – Pink Eye gives you poison shots, Cancer increases number of tears, etc.). New challenge runs. More item synergies. More characters to play as. “Seeds” that allow you to choose a particular run. Hard mode for you masochists. Couch drop in/drop out co-op, ingeniously designed where a second player can take health from the first player and becomes a unique familiar, providing backup until death (as long as you have health to spare, you can respawn). Controller support. New soundtrack from Matthias Bossi and Jon Evans. More secrets. The ability to save. Chocolate ♥♥♥♥♥♥s.   …  Okay, not that last bit.   I could go on. Needless to say they took The Binding of Isaac and its DLC, Wrath of the Lamb, and compiled it into a single rerelease. Then they went and gave it a new splash of paint and hundreds of hours of content. Graphics are spectacular and detailed, the style is lovingly Zelda inspired, the music is fresh and exhilarating, enemies pop upon death, viscerally gratifying... it's truly a delight. If I have a minor niggle, it's that Rebirth feels kind of floaty compared to Vanilla Isaac, a little too fast – but that just might take some getting used to. It certainly hasn't deterred me. For players old and new Rebirth is at once familiar and exotic, and I predict that regardless of prior experience with Isaac you'll find yourself experiencing some gaming de ja vu. It really, truly is a gamer's game; a loving homage to why we picked up controllers in the first place.  But half the fun, my uninitiated friends, is discovering all this for yourselves... the bosses (and tactics required to take them down), the items, the secrets. It's a challenging game, I won't sugarcoat it. But pressing forward and beating that first boss, getting to a new level, glimpsing the final boss... all of these milestones are as rewarding as gaming experience get, period. And once you start at it, you won't stop. That's what those save files are for.   This is the indie game of the year. This is the only indie title you really need to buy in 2014... for fans of the series, for those unfamiliar, for sentient animals, and for any extraterrestrials and apparitions within earshot. You owe it to yourself to buy this, a title retro and modern all at once. This puts all of those HD rereleases, definitive editions, and remakes to shame. This is truly a rebirth; for indie games, for players, for devs and publishers... for gaming. The bar has been raised.  So what are you waiting for? Repent, every one of you, in the name of RNGesus for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of Rebirth.  ","hours":901.5,"funny_percent":0.36160188457008247,"helpful_percent":0.8633686690223793}
{"review":"I love this game, alot. It completely blows the original out of the water. Here's some pros/cons: Pros: -More Playable characters. -More Bosses -More Items -8 Billion seeded runs! -Better mechanics -A whole load of bug fixes. -A massive amount of playtime. -New Challenges -Boss rush -16 Endings! -Easier to break >:)   Cons: -The Keeper..  In all seriousness, this is one of my favourite games of all time. Fantastic, active and passionate community, Northernlion's videos are what keeps me warm at night. Incredible fun, highly recommended.","hours":449.2,"funny_percent":0.7030567685589519,"helpful_percent":0.9650655021834061}
{"review":"If you like naked children mutating and injecting various chemicals into themselves, killing angels for a key, and selling your soul to satan himself for a dead cat, this is the game for you.","hours":314.5,"funny_percent":0.5322812051649928,"helpful_percent":0.8680057388809183}
{"review":"I hate the enemies I hate the bosses I hate the rooms I hate the items I hate this game I can't stop playing 10/10","hours":376,"funny_percent":1.0419790104947526,"helpful_percent":0.8455772113943029}
{"review":"Disclaimer: This game has a steep learning curve. The basis of this game is knowledge, the community spreads their knowledge, almost making a meta. The Binding of Isaac is a very fun game for me and I love it's art style. That being said here are some pros and cons:  Pros: 1. Precise gameplay (in terms of movement, shooting and the bullet hell aspects.) 2. Wide variety of bosses 3. Randomized everything! 4. Great soundtrack! 5. Wide variety of characters 6. (With Afterbirth) Interesting greed mode with cool final boss 7. Great community!  Cons: 1. Very hard to memorize what _____ Item does. (maybe its just me, idk) 2. Ouch! Alot of bullet hell aspects. (Im bad at those)  Anyway, the cons are pretty much because those are my personal issues with it. Believe me, if you want replayability and a good game to stream/ play through blind then this is it!","hours":108.6,"funny_percent":0.057692307692307696,"helpful_percent":0.9471153846153846}
{"review":"The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth Is One Of The Best Indie Game Of All Time!  The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth Is A Indie Game Made By Ed McMillan (The Same Person That Made Super Meat Boy, Gish And The End Is Nigh), That Is Great Fun To Play And Then Complete (Yep I Put Money On It That You Will TRY To 100%)  PROS: Hundreds Of Items (504)  100+ Trinkets (122)  Loads Of Unlocks  Hundreds Of Hours Play Time  Lovely Art Style  CONS:  Hard To Get Into (To Learn All The Items/Trinkets/Enemies) Frustrating (You Will See What I Mean) Shoop Da Whoop (JK)  Summary:  A Very Fun Indie Game, Made By The GOD Of Indie Games ED McMillan, With Hundreds IF NOT Thousands Of Hours Play Time!  \"7/10 FUN BUT ANNOYING\"","hours":173.2,"funny_percent":0.08016877637130802,"helpful_percent":0.9282700421940928}
{"review":"If you enoyed The Binding of Isaac, you will absolutely love this game. BoI was one of my favourite games from the past few years, and I never thought it could be so much better. Well, it is. Rebirth takes the addictive formula from the flash version of BoI/WotL and made it even more satisfying and addictive this time. The controls are so smooth, the graphics are spot on, and you can tell how much love was put into this game. I simply cannot put this game down, and I highly recommend picking this game up, it is worth every single penny.  *Updated for Steam Awards*  I nominated BOI:R for the 'Just 5 More Minutes Awards' because everytime I play I find it hard to stop, and \"One more run wouldn't hurt\" ends up being 5 hours.","hours":212.4,"funny_percent":0.03070175438596491,"helpful_percent":0.9254385964912281}
{"review":"I played it just a little bit, I think it is ok. 69/10 best game for eternity!!!","hours":2299.8,"funny_percent":0.1793103448275862,"helpful_percent":0.8931034482758621}
{"review":"The Finding of Items: Restart.","hours":286.6,"funny_percent":2.3985943775100402,"helpful_percent":0.821285140562249}
{"review":"Drop money out of poop Sell your life to Satan Cry over monsters that live in your basement Enter in your mom's utero by a hole in the ground Kill yourself as a fetus inside her Defeat the most terrible angels and demons Get killed by a spider  Ten out of ten ","hours":795.8,"funny_percent":1.7538200339558574,"helpful_percent":0.8174872665534805}
{"review":"'When life gives you lemons, reroll.' Fortune Teller Machine __________________________________________  Introduction  At first I did not know what to think of the 'Binding of Isaac: Rebirth': I've been attacked by smiling piles of poop and killed them with my tears. Meanwhile I was picking up several toxic substances and organs before I died quite soon to the creepy version of 'Snake'. My thoughts were pretty much:  \"What is this? Why... oh my god, wtf. Ah, c'mon one more try.\"  Approximately several hundred deaths later (killed by: poop, fire, flies, severed heads, living hearts, creepy huge spiders, needles, eyeballs, headless torsos and other stuff right from a creepy horror story) I can definitely say: This game is awesome and I can't stop playing it. It's probably the best rogue-like that I've played so far and even after 60 hours I've seen nearly nothing of the content. There's just so much stuff to do and an insane amount of unlockables and secrets to discover. (Edit: It took me 269 hours to finish everything and getting every item at least once. Oh boy, that was an experience full of hate and love. Definitely an emotional rollercoaster. The Lost vs. Mega Satan. Nope. Won't do this again...)  The games' concept consists of random dungeons and items, a hard difficulty with permanent death and many secrets that players will stumble upon on their journey through little Isaac's basement. These aspects can be found in many other games as well, however here all of it is being combined so extremly well that it creates a game in what everything fits together perfectly. There are several characters with different stats and starting items, a ton of items, trinkets and stuff that can be found and unlocked (with their synergies they decide the run as they either make you a looser or a superhero), dozens of different room types and areas, lots of creepy enemies, bosses and many traps and secrets.   In addition most of the content is only unlocked after playing through the game multiple times. Then it's possible that the former endboss isn't the real endboss anymore and that you can access even more areas after its death. Moreover there are also special challenges, a hard mode, different endings and stuff like e.g. curses that randomly appear during a game and make everything even more uncomfortable for our little 'hero'.  In 'The Binding of Isaac' every run you do really feels unique and that is what I really love about the game: It never feels repetitive. __________________________________________  Visuals and Audio  In addition I like the concept and style that is somewhere between a freaky horror version of a child's book and the insane nightmare of a mad man - just in the super cute version mixed with some creepy sounds.   The music is really catchy and the pixelated graphics are very well done, support the atmosphere and make the game seem even dirtier (for the pixel-haters: this filter can be turned off). The game is based around several names, items and stories from the bible and christianity and the main story is about a mother who wants to sacrifice her son to god. I also have to admit that the intro sequence was quite interesting and I really liked all the subtle story hints. They are like different puzzle pieces that fit together and every run adds another element to the whole picture. __________________________________________  Contra  Talking about the negative points you definitely have to face one fact: some stuff of the game can be an instant turn-off for people. The 'cute but gory ickyness' of the game is definitely very special.  And it's really hard. Okay it's a rogue-like, they tend to be hard, but even for their standards this game is a tough cookie. Even more if you plan on getting all the achievements. However I don't really care about this, I just start my character, hope for some good items, get wrecked on a boss (or a regular enemy/fire/needles...) and then I just start over. And all the time it gets a bit easier as you understand the enemies, items and the boss' movements (don't worry you'll still die a lot though...). (Well, in the end I cared about the achievements and spent way more hours in this game than I would have ever though...) __________________________________________  Conclusion  So all in all I can definitely recommend this game. From my point of every part of it fits together perfectly and the game provides a ton of fun. The new DLC 'Afterbirth' adds even more enemies, items, synergies and modes to the main game, boosting the time for unlocking everything to insane heights. There is enough stuff to do for several hundred of hours. If you don't mind the 'weird' style and the special humour the game is definitely at least a 9 out of 10.  And let us be honest: 'The Binding of Isaac' is the only game where it's at least kind of okay to scream things like:  'YES, I got cancer!!!' or  'Sweet I found an injection with green looking acid! Now my tears are green and melt through poop, bones and these headless freaks!'  or 'Great, this pile of sh*t dropped a lunch and some hearts!'  ...but probably it would be better NOT to call out loud the names of all the items you get. Sentences like 'I got a...  Headless Baby The head of my Dead Cat Bob's Bladder Stem Cells  (...) now I can kill my mother!!! Die, die, die! *insert insane laugh here*'   ...could end with some pretty freaked out people calling the police and you spending the night in a dirty little cell. Well, it may at least have a trap door and a basement...","hours":278.9,"funny_percent":0.6812227074235808,"helpful_percent":0.9126637554585153}
{"review":"After playing this for a little while, it ALREADY blows away all my expectations. As someone that has 500+ hours in the original, they were very high to begin with. The music is FANTASTIC, I still can't get over it. You have a difficulty option now, you can chose to play on normal or hard. This is great, as when you played the first sometimes it got too easy with everything unlocked! You have save files now, and can resume a run where you left off. No more leaving the game running for hours as you go to the store. Full controller support, dunno about a lot of different controllers, but it works flawlessly with an xbox 360 controller. You have a lot of new exciting items and power-ups. Things that were never possible in the first. More challenges, different room sizes and types, the list goes on. I had very high hopes for this, and already this gets everything right, even better than I had expected in the first place. This is a must, even if you didn't like the first binding of isaac, since it fixes a LOT of issues that most people had with the first. Highly recommended 10/10","hours":1295.7,"funny_percent":0.012875536480686695,"helpful_percent":0.9098712446351931}
{"review":"A drug. Simply addicting. A masterpiece you can't miss!  -Unlimited replayability -Simple and cool graphic -Amazing gameplay  Just try it and you won't regret!","hours":988.6,"funny_percent":0.14009661835748793,"helpful_percent":0.9033816425120773}
{"review":"Not too Bad.","hours":4811.9,"funny_percent":0.7928571428571428,"helpful_percent":0.8196428571428571}
{"review":"This game, man. It'll make you feel like a god as much as it'll make you feel like a one-legged homeless man who has wet himself.  Buy it. It's incredible.","hours":79.7,"funny_percent":0.498812351543943,"helpful_percent":0.833729216152019}
{"review":"The game where the Devil also accepts your credit card. 10/10","hours":640.4,"funny_percent":0.8672199170124482,"helpful_percent":0.7966804979253111}
{"review":"Finally a game with good christian values!","hours":242.4,"funny_percent":2.198186528497409,"helpful_percent":0.8005181347150259}
{"review":"ok heres a real review. Now I haven't played the first game that much, but I could already see all of the great improvements. Pros: -It's not laggy -You can see the enemies easier -It's easier to hear that you got hurt -A lot more items -More characters -Music is higher quality -Overall better performance -Improved animations -If you need to leave to go somewhere you can save by just quitting. -Multiple save files so if you share your steam with someone or just want to restart without losing progress you can do so. Cons: -memes. There are still memes. 10/10","hours":91.9,"funny_percent":0.12698412698412698,"helpful_percent":0.8761904761904762}
{"review":"The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is a remastering of the original 2011 Binding of Isaac in short. The game play hearkens back to old school top-down 16-bit games. The most notable and recognizable being the Legend of Zelda titles for inspiration. In essence, the Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is a rouge-like RPG where you play as Isaac (or one of the other unlockable characters) and you must traverse the basement of your house to escape the wrath of your mother, who hears from the voice of God and is told that you must be sacrificed. This premise sets the tone of the game being very creepy and unsettling as you defend against all manners of your lost brothers, sisters, creatures, and other grotesque monstrosities. Eventually leading to a showdown with your own mother as well (and even beyond that if you get good at the game and carry on).  What makes the Binding the Isaac such a great title comes from it's solid game play elements. The game play itself is very easy to understand at first, but becomes very deep with the inclusion of the upgrades via the rogue-like elements (easy to understand + difficult to master + luck of the draw + perma-death = Isaac in a nutshell). In order to get far into a run, you will need upgrades, and a lot of them. Isaac by default will only be able to fire his tears at the enemies in only the four cardinal directions, but many different upgrades can alter his tears or give them new effects. This is what can make or break a run in Binding of Isaac. Be warned, not all the upgrades are positive, which adds to the rogue-like elements, as some are ultimately poor or are only used in certain situations and can ruin a run, resulting in failure (high risk and high reward situations are the nature of the game). It is the element of luck the drives you to start up another run, see what upgrades and item combinations you will encounter each time. In this remastering of Binding of Isaac, there is the heavy emphasis on item/upgrade synergy. Coming across interesting item combinations and seeing how they interact with one another can create those overpowered moments (Brimstone plus Tammy's Head for example creates a short Brimstone shots in all directions when Tammy's Head is used) that make you feel like a god within the game, or create a silly combination where you have to work twice as hard just to clear a room.  So what if you already have played the original Binding of Isaac, what should you expect this time around in the remastering? In short, a lot more when compared with the original. More items and upgrades have introduced into the item pool, new bosses and enemies to encounter (for better or worse), a whole new art style very reminiscent of Gameboy Advance titles (pixel art style with a pixel smoother option in the options menu for those who prefer not to look at rigid pixels), seeded run options, 2-player local co-op play, controller support with analog stick integration, new soundtrack, three save slots, new lighting effects, and well just more to be honest. The sheer amount that was added to the game is staggering when compared to the original. Even at the $15 USD price, it still feels well worth the investment. You can get several hours in just from doing a few runs and seeing how far you will get and what crazy item combinations you will come across, or what new items/characters you will unlock for later runs. It is a challenging game no doubt, but I will admit that having one of those moments where you just barely defeat final boss of your run with only one health bar left, is nothing short of gratifying. If you have any slight interest in the rogue-like genre, this is genuinely a great title to try and own.  Worth it?: Yes If on sale?: No question, yes Available on: Steam (PC/Mac/Linux), PS4, PSVita","hours":36.4,"funny_percent":0.01904761904761905,"helpful_percent":0.9095238095238095}
{"review":"I'd appreciate it if you checked out my blog, where I do reviews, giveaways, and more: https://gandhigaming.wordpress.com/   Binding of Isaac is one of my best purchases on Steam. $5 for hundreds of hours attempting to get at Mom's Heart again and again with randomly generated rooms and items. Really- what's not to like? To this day, I still play it and enjoy watching myself suffer the consequences of trying to kill Gurdy Jr. With Rebirth out, it should be no surprise that I pick this game up. Honestly, it took a little while, but I think Rebirth lived up to the hype. Close call, McMillen.  Graphics  The visuals were changed (Edmund McMillen didn't like the original art style) to 16 bit. Some may not like that, but I sure do. I didn't really adjust to the cartoon visuals and I'm also glad to see this change. The characters still look great, the items are cool looking too, nothing wrong with any of that. One thing I noticed that was a pretty major pro was the fact that the atmosphere finally looked darker and is what the original atmosphere should have been. The darkness with the occasonal cracks of light look great and perfectly match the mood. Honestly, I'm impressed with the visuals.  Gameplay  Okay, with the full controller support this game has, I freaked with joy. Now I don't have to use my handy Xbox 360 wireless controller for just Dark Souls, Skyrim, and Awesomenauts! Full controller support is a major pro for those (like myself) who use a controller a lot more often than keyboard and mouse. As for those who don't use a controller, I'm afraid I haven't tried without the controller yet. Anyway, the gameplay is much smoother than the first game. Although shooting took some time to adjust to, I got the hang of it and look at me now- beat Mom twice without taking a single heart of damage both times! Which brings me to the low point of the game- the balance this game attempts to offer is pretty messed up. Dingle is ridiculous. That thing is basically Gurdy Jr. when it comes to being unfair. It sprints faster than Gurdy Jr. sometimes and spawns enemies, too. I understand that Dingle is a solid idea when it comes to how Edmund McMillen's games are usually themed, but I think it would've been a better idea in The Caves instead. At the low point, I can kill Mom with little effort now. My recent encounter, well, I lost to her, but Azazel is a bit difficult to use if you're lacking the range that he desperately needs to win at life. That's basically the gameplay for Isaac. Not bad if you ignore the random difficulty spikes.  Story  Based off the biblical story with the same name, Binding of Isaac partially changes it but in a more video game approved fashion. Instead of the ram sacrifice, Mom (who replaces Abraham) still attempts to kill her son Isaac while he runs and hides in the basement he discovered in his room. I enjoy the game towards its end when you face the real final bosses personally. Not much to say here, but for a roguelike, Binding of Isaac: Rebirth has a pretty interesting story.  Audio  Okay, I'm saying this now. I was a huge fan of the original Isaac soundtrack. Especially the song \"My Innermost Apocalypse\". Anyway, the new soundtrack truthfully seemed downgraded to me. The songs aren't as catchy as they were before and the boss themes aren't as terrifying. Now don't get me wrong, I like the new normal boss theme as much as the original, but some like Mom don't sound as cool anymore. Same goes with The Caves. \"Sacrificial\" was overrated, so I'm glad that I don't have to listen to that awful garbage anymore. So far, The Depths has the coolest song, it perfectly matches the mood and atmosphere. The sound effects sound better in this version (come on, Isaac sounded like a 28 year old man-baby in the first game when he got hurt) and I see no flaws. So in the end, the songs are subpar, but the sound effects are pretty cool.  Replayability  Come on, anyone with eyes knows Rebirth has replayability. With all the randomness the game flawlessly executes, it should be no surprise people can log all these hours on to it with ease.  Verdict  I gave the preview for this game a 6.9. I called it \"above average.\" I said it would take work to top its original. Within that time period of me writing the preview and this review, the game changed for the better. Binding of Isaac: Rebirth is a worthy successor for the awesome roguelike and I can't wait to see where my journeys go next!  Graphics- 9.5/10 Gameplay- 7.5/10 Story- 7.0/10 Audio- 6.5/10 Replayability- 10/10  .:8.5/10:.  +Great replayability +Full controller support +Nice 16 bit visuals +Improved sound effects +Cool new items +Smoother gameplay  -Somewhat unbalanced -Subpar soundtrack","hours":27.4,"funny_percent":0.012254901960784314,"helpful_percent":0.821078431372549}
{"review":"So, this game is a remake The Binding Of Isaac released in 2011,I don't want to write a lot, so I will just wrte + and -.   + Isaac is back! +4 new unlockable characters +new rooms +pixel graphics (for pixel haters there is a filter) +LOTS of new items +new effects +new enemies +new challenges +new endings +and more new stuff  -in fullscreen game is too zoomed in -some bosses and enemies are worse the they were in original -MUSIC! New soundtrack is OK, but nobody will make as perfect indie game music as Danny...  So, If you like the best indie games, buy it.","hours":152.5,"funny_percent":0.007444168734491315,"helpful_percent":0.8337468982630273}
{"review":"More content, stability, variety, rooms, monsters, joyfully difficult, interesting small world of misery. Hard to find anything bad, game was just in development for long enough to be perfectly finished. Works nice both for short time killing and for long grinding.","hours":10.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9055555555555556}
{"review":"The original Binding of Isaac was released back in 2011 and was pretty much the effort of two or three people, the game on a chronically horrible Flash interface. The original is still pretty great.  However, comparing the original and the remastered Binding of Isaac is like the difference between a regular membrane keyboard and a mechanical keyboard. You won't notice the difference immediately, but it will stick in your mind if you go back to the original.   Rebirth plays much better in comparison via subtle changes to the formula. The main differences between the original and the remastered edition include 160+ new items, native gamepad support (thank jebus), a new set of gameplay and difficulty tweaks (Hard mode being a big tweak for cool kids who like to unlock more things on top of their already unlocked things), and the game engine running at 60FPS all times every times (except when you alt-tab to something else, I've noticed, but I'm not going to hit the developers for that).  It's a worthy addition to a classic, and I don't know if I can go back to playing the original now, since this supercedes it by a mile. Honestly, the only people I imagine who would complain about this are frustrated teenagers who don't get allowances and those awful pedantic ♥♥♥♥s on Steam who use the forums to complain about refunds every time the pre-orders don't get released on time.","hours":3.9,"funny_percent":0.047244094488188976,"helpful_percent":0.8582677165354331}
{"review":"I've got nearly 400 hours on the original Binding of Isaac. When I preordered Rebirth, it felt almost obligatory. It had so much to live up to! My thought process was, \"Well, I'm sure I'll at least get my money's worth, and that guy is welcome to some more of my money after the cost vs. enjoyment of the original.\"  IT IS PROBABLY EVEN BETTER THAN THE ORIGINAL. I'll rack up hundreds of hours on this one too, I'm sure. The game is cleaner and faster, you don't get shot in the foot by randoming the wrong items, and YOU CAN CONTINUE YOUR GAME. So now if you're in the middle of a good play and someone is like, \"Hey let's go out to dinner,\" you don't have to just leave the game running the entire time you're gone.  So yeah. Recommend.","hours":1581.9,"funny_percent":0.033112582781456956,"helpful_percent":0.9271523178807947}
{"review":"This game has enough content to keep you going for weeks if not months just to reach 100%, and even after that, you're stuck with a beatiful, fun, endlessly replayable game that runs at silky-smooth 60FPS on almost any machine.   That said, the game can and WILL kick your butt hard if you're not paying attention to what you're doing. However if you can play your cards right (sometimes literally), you can own the game and become death, the destroyer of floors.  If you enjoyed even a slight bit of the original, you'll be in love with the new game,  And let's not forget that the soundtrack is simply wicked, in all senses of the word.","hours":256.8,"funny_percent":0.05442176870748299,"helpful_percent":0.9251700680272109}
{"review":"A great remake of its original. Depend on your luck and dodging skills and you will be victorious. New bosses, new items, and a nice 16 bit look included with it, it's safe to say that this game is amazing.  9.5/10","hours":127.6,"funny_percent":0.009950248756218905,"helpful_percent":0.8706467661691543}
{"review":"Step 1: Have a run that makes you god. Step 2: Have 100 hours of bad runs. Step 3: Quit for a week or so. Step 4: Repeat 10/10","hours":617.2,"funny_percent":0.8930957683741648,"helpful_percent":0.8017817371937639}
{"review":"I went to devil room and saw a Brimstone, I took it and died.     But you ALWAYS take Brimstone.  11/10","hours":129.5,"funny_percent":1.6113744075829384,"helpful_percent":0.8578199052132701}
{"review":"Great improvment from the original. I don't see anything that the original has over this game other than like 2 songs.  Pros -Better graphics -Better soundtrack (for the most part) -More fps -More Characters, Bosses, Items, Floors, etc. -More synergies!!!! -Many more that I can't think of  Cons -The Lost","hours":523.4,"funny_percent":0.10377358490566038,"helpful_percent":0.8726415094339622}
{"review":"Isaac has some problems in his family. His mother, watching a religious TV program, decided to kill her son in sacrifice to God. The kid managed to jump into the basement, a network of catacombs, densely populated by a huge amount of monsters. And the only weapon he has are his tears.  In The Binding of Isaac Rebirth you clean room by room, collect bonuses, find hidden places and shops, and then defeat the boss and jump into the next door in the floor. A new level begins and it gets harder and harder. You do so a few times before meeting his mother, then Satan himself or someone else.  The Binding of Isaac is challenging, really difficult. The farther you get, the easier it is to die and then you have to start from the very beginning. But there are many items which help you to become stronger. So many that I even used the Isaac Wiki to get the full understanding of every item and situation in the game (it really helps!). One item teaches Isaac to jump (finally!), other causes tears or enemies to explode and hurt everyone around. You can upgrade your max HP (Hearts), the devil will sometimes reward you with the power of the dark side (wings and other strong abilities for some of your hearts). The style of play often changes radically in the middle of the race. You just scribbled tears in different directions, hardly finishing even the smallest creep and then you suddenly get a power-up that changes your whole gameplay and you kill even the hardest boss without any problems. But the thing is, it can be the other way round, too! It is also always interesting to see how every item affects Isaac, because every item changes his appearance, so each time he looks different: he acquires tumors, horns or a bloody grin, pulls mom's bra on his head or... something else.  Failure is a part of the process. Play, die, start again, play, die, again. But every time we get something new (achievements open new items), so you do not want to stop completely.   Rebirth added a lot of new enemies, bosses, items and secrets if you compare it with the original game. And this is good! Edmund McMillen and his colleagues made an excellent job. A game full of the most horrible fears, bitter tears of childhood and exciting ideas.   You can also play it with you friend locally. But it’s not the local multiplayer you’d expect. Instead of a full second hero your partner takes control of a little Ghost accompanying Isaac. It can't go through doors or pick up items, it can only help to do more dmg. I would like more, although it is not clear how anything else would fit into the current mechanics.  So all in all this game is really fantastic! - 10/10!  Click to get to my Curation Page","hours":181.8,"funny_percent":0.06474820143884892,"helpful_percent":0.9280575539568345}
{"review":"The Binding of Isaac: Rebirth, a remake of the flash game made by Edmund McMillen. A game I've been anticipating for a very long time. Everyone who doesn't have it might be wondering if it live up to the hype, is it better than the original? Is it a good game at all?   Absolutely.   Rebirth is an improvement on the original isaac in every single way imaginable. The art style, the gameplay, controller support, save files, everything you can think of is better in Rebirth. Its absolutely one of the best games I've ever played, and its only been 2 days! The game is everything I expected it to be and more. I can't say enough about how much of a pleasure it is to play this game. The original brought me into the genre of the roguelike/lite. And this one draws me in even more with all the incredible items and synergys.   I've heard people complain about the soundtrack, I really don't understand why. Its much better in my opinion, its more of a background ambient sound rather than an in your face track, and I find that fits this game incredibly well. The arcade and boss music is especially good. The only complaint that I've had issue with is keyboard problems occasionally, but its so minor and rarely affects anything, at least for me.   Rebirth is truely one of the best games I've played, and will probably be my game of the year. What are you waiting for?! Go pick up Rebirth and play the best rougelike to date.  Buy At Full Price ","hours":569.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9426229508196722}
{"review":"Things you should be careful about when talking about this game in public or even your friends in a skype call.   1)\"I killed mom!\" 2)\"HELL YEAH! I've got cancer!\" 3)\"Why are all these giant babies farting on me?\" 4)\"Now I could use this razor to activate my w h o r e!\" 5)\"God dammit! I didn't want to pick up the dead cat, now that bucket of lard I just ate was worthless!\" 6)\"Those little poops are so cute!\" 7)\"After I take this deal with the devil, I can have w h o r e permanently\" 8)\"Can't wait for afterbirth!\" 9)\"Mom is dead, its time to go inside her womb!\" 10)\"I'm not sure what's better, Mom's bra or Mom's pad?\" 11)\"Damn it! I accidently picked up the tick, now I can't get cancer!\" 12)\"Yay! More afterbirth is coming!\"  There are probably more but I'd never have the time to put them all into one review but I'm sure you will find the rest while playing.  (I might keep adding more over long periods of time and feel free to add more in the comments)  10/10 would say again","hours":423.3,"funny_percent":3.843220338983051,"helpful_percent":0.7966101694915254}
{"review":"I highly recommend this game to anyone with strong Christian values.","hours":165.5,"funny_percent":0.02304147465437788,"helpful_percent":0.7672811059907834}
{"review":"Using the skills i learned in The Binding of Isaac, I tried to kill my real life abusive mother with my tears, but that only made her hit me harder. Despite giving me false hope, the game is really good.  9/10","hours":439.4,"funny_percent":0.042868277474668745,"helpful_percent":0.7521434138737334}
{"review":"Great Game for wasting 10 minutes before you leave Great Game for wasting 10 hours instead of sleeping 10/10 doesnt cost $60","hours":174,"funny_percent":0.3192771084337349,"helpful_percent":0.8734939759036144}
{"review":"I haven't played this game all that much but it seems cool and you should buy it.","hours":5517.4,"funny_percent":1.1868131868131868,"helpful_percent":0.7939560439560439}
{"review":"This game does not hold your hand. Feel free to cry about it; maybe you'll do more damage.","hours":18.9,"funny_percent":0.7878787878787878,"helpful_percent":0.8666666666666667}
{"review":"It's fair to say that Binding of Isaac: Afterbirth is my favourite game, since I invested a few hours into it... With this being said I won't review it because my opinion will obviously influence my review, I will critique it using the concepts written by Ernest Adams and Joris Dormans in the book Game Mechanics: Advanced Game Design.  The authors came up with five concepts that players should find in every game. These are: Physics, Internal Economy, Progression Mechanisms, Tactical Maneuvering and Social Interaction.  Physics: Physics are very important in video games, because natural laws like gravity, mass, inertia can be applied in a game to either make it realistic or to distort reality. Not only the Newtonian physics are affected by game physics, it can also affect sparks, explosions or even smoke. The controls in The Binding of Isaac: Afterbirth are quite simple. The characters use physics for movement using the WASD keys and firing tears using the arrow keys.  There are a few items in the game that distort the veracity of the physics.  Such as Fate, Lord of the Pit, Spirit of the Night and a few synergies that gives the player the ability to fly. And tear effects that makes the character to shoot stationary tears (Anti-gravity), gravitational tears (Tiny Planet), bombs (IPECAC, Dr. Fetus and Epic Fetus), knife (Mom’s Knife) and even lasers (Technology, Technology 2, Tech X, Brimstone, Mega Blast and Shoop Da Whoop). Not counting with the synergies that can occur if the player mixes two or more of those items.  Internal Economy: Real life has an economy based on a system that produces currency or other objects that have a monetary value. However, there is other type of economy in games, it is called internal economy, which includes all kinds of resources, such as: Health, XP (experience), skills, levels, ammo and a lot more. In order to know better a video game’s gameplay, it is very important to understand how its economy works. How to get resources and how to spend them, in order to benefit the player. This game has a great quantity of examples for internal economy. It has coins, keys, bombs, and HP. The coins allow the player to buy items, consumables, gamble on slot machines. It even can contribute to the player’s damage if the item Money = Power has been picked up.  The Bombs are used to blow up tinted rocks (that gives spirit hearts, keys, bombs, golden chests or Small Rock). Bombs can be used also to find secret rooms, or simply as a damage dealer. Keys are required to get into certain rooms, such as Item Rooms, Shop, Double key rooms, libraries… It is also required to open golden chests. There are different types of HP, there are red hearts (usually gained from an item), spirit hearts and black hearts, the last two are temporary and are important in the beginning of every run. The temporary HP are used to protect red hearts so the player can access Deals with the Devil, these deals consume red hearts in exchange of some powerful items. If the player runs out of red hearts, temporary hearts can be exchanged as well.  Progression Mechanisms: Progression Mechanisms are one of the most important type of mechanism of any video game. And the reason for this is that it can engage players into spending lots of hours in a game just to try to beat the high score, to get through a level or to finish a game. There are lots of examples of progression mechanisms, such as: defeating an end level boss, puzzles, scores, getting certain items that allows players to proceed in the story, allowing access to more advanced levels and narratives. In Binding of Isaac the progression mechanism is to defeat bosses in order to go to the next floor. There are ways to go around that method, if the player has the item We need to go deeper! or an ehwaz rune, he can create a trap door in the ground and go to the next level. This is a viable way if the player is powerful enough or wants to get to Boss rush or the Hush fight on time, because jumping boss fights and possibly Deals with the Devil can have a great impact on the player’s stats, making the player weaker since the difficulty level goes up with every floor.  Tactical Maneuvering: Tactical Maneuvering is very important mostly in strategy games, because it gives benefits to players if certain units are located in the right place. However, each video game is unique and tactics differs from player to player, depending on how aggressively or how passively players tend to play the game. There are lots of things we need to consider before talking about Tactical Maneuvering. Since the game is randomly generated, the player can’t count on a certain item to show up at any time.  So it’s hard to have a defined tactic and it’s better to adjust the way the game is played with the items that are given. For instance: a player with the synergy brimstone + guppy will play differently of a player that has the synergy tiny planet + mom’s knife. Other thing that affects tactics is the amount of HP that the player has. This will affect the run especially in Deals with the Devil because there are lots of times that the player can’t make a Deal with the Devil given his low HP.   Social Interaction: Nowadays, the activity of playing video games is becoming more of a social activity. There are two ways of playing games with other people, either by the Internet or by LAN parties. One important step to improve social interaction in the gaming world was the creation of gaming platforms such as Steam or Desura, these incentivize players to socialize, talk, discuss game-related matters, and share their experiences and to play video games together. Binding of Isaac is a single-player game, however it can be played with another person in a local co-op scenario. One thing that came up with the DLC Afterbirth is the daily challenges, where lots of people can play the same seed, and in the end there’s a leaderboard where people can compare their scores. This is the only way that people can socialize in this game.  Conclusion: For a video game to be good it must follow some rules, which will allow players to become engaged while playing the game. For Adams and Dormans there are five different types of mechanics that a player could find in any game. The Binding of Isaac: Afterbirth can fit in all of those concepts excellently, with the only exception being the social interaction (which still is pretty good for a single-player game!).  After 830 hours, this game still surprises me for its complexity and for its coherency. Edmund and his team made an amazing work with this gem here, and I encourage everyone to try this game.","hours":1203,"funny_percent":0.037037037037037035,"helpful_percent":0.8962962962962963}
{"review":"I havent showered in 4 days","hours":298,"funny_percent":1.8345323741007193,"helpful_percent":0.8093525179856115}
{"review":"Kill Satan Kill your mom's internal organs Kill flying tumours Kill yourself as a fetus in your mom's uterus Kill whistling poop  and then get killed by a fly.  12/10 would buy again. ","hours":150,"funny_percent":1.8342857142857143,"helpful_percent":0.7857142857142857}
{"review":"The only game where i love getting cancer.  (edit 26/11/2016): XD","hours":145.9,"funny_percent":0.12994350282485875,"helpful_percent":0.8418079096045198}
{"review":"Very fun and expansive, but everybody hating on this because of Afterbirth+ PLEASE LISTEN:   STOP GIVING THE MAIN GAME BAD REVIEWS BECAUSE OF AFTERBIRTH+ GO TO ACTUAL PAGE OF AFTERBIRTH+ AND REVIEW IT THERE REBIRTH ISN'T AS BROKEN AS AFTERBIRTH+ YOU'RE HATING ON THE WRONG PAGE AND GIVING REBIRTH BAD REVIEWS BECAUSE OF SOMETHING THAT ISN'T REBIRTH GIVE AN ACTUAL REASON TO HATE IT, NOT \"Dlc is bad and so I hate the original!!!!!!!!!!!!!!\"","hours":123.7,"funny_percent":0.05384615384615385,"helpful_percent":0.9}
{"review":"After spending hundreds of hours in the original binding of isaac i was pretty sceptical about rebirth. To be honest i didn't expect it to have the same impact. But i was proven wrong sooooo wrong. After the first few minutes i got hooked again and can't stop playing since. More items, sick synergies, fun and creative challenges, coop, great graphics GREAT new soundtrack and smooth gameplay (no more slowdowns caused by the crappy flash engine). The only downside at this moment are some minor bugs.   However if you're looking for a reason for not get Rebirth, here's one: After playing rebirth for the first time the original binding of isaac will become a waste of space in your library since you never ever gonna thouch it again.","hours":238.7,"funny_percent":0.023255813953488372,"helpful_percent":0.8837209302325582}
