{"funny_percent":0.24528301886792453,"helpful_percent":0.9791507775782536,"review":"\"Martin Stig Andersen, the sound designer and composer for Playdead’s Inside wanted a different yet familiar soundscape for the indie platformer. His solution was to play it through an actual human skull.\"  dude, yes.","hours":4.1}
{"funny_percent":0.024489795918367346,"helpful_percent":0.8643917032276655,"review":"Amazing game!!! i would say the game is worth around 10-15€  The gameplay and the atmosphere, graphics, soundtrack everything were astounding.   There is a lot to this game when it comes to artistic meeting, it says quite a a few things without saying anything at all, leaving everything up to visual story telling and making connections, it's a dark, twisted, wierd and wonderfull bit of indie game art and storytelling.","hours":8.8}
{"funny_percent":0.027149321266968326,"helpful_percent":0.9130187120043135,"review":"An amazing game that builds on what made LIMBO great  Summary at the end - for the easily persuaded  Overall Impression: INSIDE is another great game from Playdead[playdead.com]. While it has no direct connection to LIMBO except that it comes from the same studio, you immediately get the sense that this game is based on LIMBO. The fluidity of your character´s movement, the subte yet beautiful background and the sounds that match the action perfectly - all these staples of LIMBO are artistically reinvigorated in INSIDE.  Without spoiling anything, INSIDE has a creepy atmosphere that is complemented by simplistic, yet stunning visuals and sounds that give an eerie feeling. Storywise, it leaves almost everything up to interpretation, which I percieve to be a good thing because it doesn´t spoon feed you. There is no notable dialogue. No tutorial. No help. You´re thrown into the game without even so much as a main menu. And that´s great because it´s unique.  However, this game does have some cons, as any indie game does (otherwise it would be mainstream). It is fairly short - at a relaxed pace, I played it through in four hours. For the price of €11.99 (-40% on sale), thats more money per hour than most other games. Especially when we consider that there is a lack of replayability in this game - once you´ve played it you know the solutions to the puzzles and can (maybe) come back to it a few months, if not years, later. But if, like me, you don´t measure games by cost per hour but rather by entertainment value, you´ll be impressed. That said, I do recommend getting INSIDE on sale rather than full price, or waiting for the price to drop over time, because €20 is pretty steep.  Another negative is the ending. MINOR SPOILER AHEAD  It leaves much up to imagination, which could be considered a good thing as I said before, but in the case of the ending it lacks clarity.  Pros: Simplistic yet stunning visuals Fiiting, creepy sounds Atmosphere of uncertainty that inspires player´s imagination Appeals wonderfully to LIMBO fans You aren´t spoon-fed  Cons: High price per hour (if purchased at €20 and not on sale) Lack of replayability Ending - see minor spoiler above  Summary INSIDE is an indie game with beauty and is artistically executed. While it lacks replay incentification or price value (at the current €20), it doesn´t spoon-feed you and instead inspires your imagination. If you liked LIMBO, you´ll love this.  Final verdict: 8.5/10 - Buy on sale or after price drops ","hours":4.6}
{"funny_percent":0.029411764705882353,"helpful_percent":0.8727832221394198,"review":"INSIDE is a game primarily concerned with the human body and it's limitations within physics. That it achieves this preoccupation that might at first seem overly ambitious for a 2D(ish) platformer stands as a testament to the talent of Playdead and the clarity of their vision.   I played and loved LIMBO, and went into INSIDE expecting LIMBO 2.0, with updated graphics and a higher budget. At its most basic level it is that, at least for the opening stretch. You're a small boy. The world is hostile to you if it notices your presence. You must move roughly right to reach an undefined goal, solving puzzles to get past each layer. However, INSIDE differs from this formula in a number of key ways. It does away with the gravity element of LIMBO that many people disliked, and switches it for a more visually stunning mechanic involving water, that also feels more thematically relevant. The water itself is also a large addition, and a knowing joke on the developers part-everyone's least favourite part of 2D platformers is universally the water levels, and yet Playdead built water levels into their game in a way that feels vital, beautiful, and kind of terrifying.  So how does INSIDE open up this conversation on the body? The protagonist being a small boy, his body's limitations are immediately apparent. They are stressed through the way that he must use the environment for his help, in various ways, but most significantly the controlling of other bodies, which gives him strength and numbers, making the puzzles easily possible. But even when the player feels the power of this control, the soundtrack of pitiful noises the bodies make turns it into something extremely uncomfortable. As you navigate through what appears to be some kind of facility, it becomes clear that this place is built around the research of this kind of control. What is not clear is, where do these bodies come from. Are they grown? Were they once people?   The games final stretch clarifies this theme, although I won't go into it here. I've heard some people express dislike of the ending, but I thought it was fantastic, in the most unsettling and upsetting way. Where LIMBO went straight for your emotions, INSIDE is content to go for your brain and play with it.  Anyway. Please play this game if you haven't yet.","hours":7.3}
{"funny_percent":0.060240963855421686,"helpful_percent":0.8595243108070932,"review":"9.4/10  * First of all, I strongly recommend INSIDE for people who would like to experience a very atmospheric and meaningful designed game. INSIDE is all about paying attention to all kind of details and events that you will encounter during the journey in the game.  - The sound effects and well designed graphics perfectly fit the general dark atmosphere of INSIDE.  - There are no instructions, no explanations, no story telling, no dialogues and absolutly lots of meanings in this game. It's not just about puzzles and getting yourself to the next step, if you pay attention to whatever happens around you; the sounds, voices, movements, light affects and the ideas, you will actually know that INSIDE has a very deep meanings.  * I enjoyed INSIDE although it's a short game that took me nearly 5 hours to 100% finish the game along with its achivements, taking into concediration that I normally had to repeat some parts where I died few times before solving the puzzle and moving on.  * For me I got INSIDE on the Summer Sale 2017, and I recommend buying the game on sale.  PLEASE NOTE: The coming parts, along with my screenshots includes spoilers !!          At the end thats my opinion, and as I said other people may have different thoughts about all of this.  The game is amazing and worth buying it.  * 11/25/2017, nominated for The “Defies Description” Award.","hours":5.9}
{"funny_percent":0.01775147928994083,"helpful_percent":0.7416484730648403,"review":"Overall Score: 9.3 / 10  Quality\t10/10\tHigh quality indie game Performance\t10/10\tFlawless; Low system requirements; No bugs/crashes Utility\t10/10\tAuto-save; Linux, Mac & cloud save supported Controls\t10/10\tIntuitive, simple and precise controls; Full pad support Gameplay\t8.5/10\tA 2.5D puzzle platformer with focus on atmosphere Challenge\t8/10\tFair for both beginners & experts; Most secrets are well hidden Content\t7/10\t~4h + 1h with secrets; worth replaying for the story/atmosphere Diversity\t9/10\tLevel layouts differ a lot and puzzles are rich in variety Immersion\t10/10\tVery mysterious atmosphere, without lean periods or fillers Design\t9.5/10\tA consistently entertaining game and an artistic masterpiece Visuals\t10/10\tA perfect example that a great game doesn't need high-end graphics Sound\t10/10\tThe SFX sound very realistic; nice OST; No dialogue fits the design Texts\tN/A\tThis game doesn't have texts at all, but they are never missed Mapping\t9/10\tNice level design concerning both layout and gameplay Interface\t9/10\tRemarkably good loading menu (nearly every scene); No HUD needed  Additional Notes:   Gamepad highly recommended!   Too pricey for the short playtime? Wait for a sale!  Tested with: 1920x1080; Windows 10 Home, 64-Bit AMD FX-8350, 8 x 4.03 GHz Nvidia GTX 970 (4GB) 16GB DDR3 RAM; Samsung SSD   If you liked this review check out my archive and see how other games scored!","hours":9.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9730678034853448,"review":"This game is a bad dream. I don't know about you, but my nightmares don't really have jumpscares. They don't have a lot of visual/graphic gore and blood. So for me, traditional horror games, which abundantly exploit the previously mentioned mechanics, don't really capture the feeling of being in a bad dream. Which is fine. That's not always the goal of a horror game. My bad dreams often are filled with the feeling of being somewhere that I shouldn't be. The feeling of being chased. The feeling of helplessness. Being surrounding by a creepy, foreign atmosphere.  That's what this game feels like. There aren't really any jumpscares or graphic gory scenes or anything like that. It just feels like you're a kid that really wants to wake up, but you can't.","hours":8.1}
{"funny_percent":0.02531645569620253,"helpful_percent":0.9667798973089115,"review":"INSIDE was a damn amazing game and I 100% recommend it to anyone who likes puzzles, dark atmospheres, and morbid, unexpected turns. Although I myself prefer 3D open world-ish games, I didn't feel at all restricted in this \"2.5D\" game. It was done so well that you barely even realize you're in a 2D game. Game mechanics are also very simple yet effective.  However, because this game is so good and the story is so powerful, it's the kind of game that you can only really play once. Maybe twice to get all the achievements (and to see the alternate ending which by the way is just as dark and unexpected as the regular ending), but any more than that and the game just doesn't have the same effect because you already know what's to come.  It's well worth the money though, even just to play it once. Highly recommend.","hours":4.2}
{"funny_percent":0.045454545454545456,"helpful_percent":0.9153991319585967,"review":"Video Review:  YouTube™ Video: Popular Geekery Inside the game review  Views: 382 Janra does a bite sized review of the game Inside. https://basedgamer.com/@Morlock Game on Steam, http://store.steampowered.com/app/304430/ https://twitter.com/PopularGeekery...   This is one of those games that... wow. When you think of \"games as art\" this is definitely one that should be on the list: the change between cramped claustrophobic quarters to expansive rooms, the simple art style that can convey so much information, the fluidity of movement of every character, and most importantly the way it can tell such a deep story with such basic elements.  A very deep, very confusing story. Seriously, even if I wanted to write a spoiler review there is no way I could do that. This game is… it’s messed up.  You play a nameless faceless boy running through the forest, hiding behind stumps while trying to avoid a search party out looking for him. It’s shocking from jump because there are a bunch of dudes, armed with rifles that fire tranq darts and hey real bullets because why not, and attack dogs. Clearly something is up with this kid. The weird part is, that he’s not trying to get away – he’s trying to break INSIDE this facility. Get it? I think that’s the point right? But really WHO KNOWS BECAUSE GAH WHAT JUST HAPPENED??  Immediately you are pushed into this expansive complex after breaking through their walls, barbed wire, and attack pigs. Yeah you heard me. This is not the weirdest thing you are going to experience, so just hold the hell on.  Inside the buildings you run into more guards, more dogs, weird creatures, mind control, telepathy, submarines, and… let’s just say that they clearly consulted David Cronenberg for certain levels. I mean… Jesus.  This is a horror game in the sense of the movies Se7en and Misery. The fear is from the story, from the environment, from the ambience that the whole thing provides. The suspense is not knowing what the hell is coming next, but also not being able to stop playing. There are no jump scares, no slavering beats… the fear is simply the unknown. The grey washed out color scheme, but featuring a little kid in a red shirt. The faceless adults going about their business, lining people up and loading them into cages.  The light, as it grows dim the deeper you dive into the murky waters, until there is simply nothing left but your faint silhouette.  Ultimately the game conveys the story of a boy who is completely, inextricably alone but is pushed further and further into this weird… Aperture Science type place.  Rating: Stayed up 2 out 5 five hours past bed time. One of those lying awake in the dark, staring at the ceiling, filled with creeping existential dread.  Go play this right now.  Full review and more at basedgamer.com/@Morlock","hours":5.6}
{"funny_percent":0.03571428571428571,"helpful_percent":0.8639112536522526,"review":"Disturbed. Speechless. Wholeheartedly in awe. That's how I'm feeling after full playtrough.  It was few years back, when I began depressing journey with Limbo. Back then it was for me much more discouraging because of the puzzles, that my brain just couldn't handle; but I was in Love with the tone, visualisation, and playing it - until I reached the end - and to this day, Limbo is game that I will, with pleasure, recommend till the end of time.  After five long years Playdead[playdead.com] came up with their second tittle - INSIDE. Let me tell you right away - waiting this long was worth it!  INSIDE is showcase what someones devotion to games, great artistic vision, trust in player base and brilliant mind can come up with, in this crowded gaming world. From start it wasn't for me possible to look at this game, and be bored, or be disinterested; because with every frame comes new thing to discover.  I was trying to keep away from spoilers, as much as I could. I succeeded.  You playing as little kid; running from people, beasts; timing your jumps so you wouldn't end as splatter in dark alley, and being careful while swimming in the dark; trying to grasp control over you life, and life of others. You run forward where mystery of this world is hiding, and along the way figure out your purpose in this dark and twisted story. What is happening here is disturbing, weird, confusing, and if the ending won't leave you with sense of \"What the F*, just happened!\", I seriously don't know what will.  This story works perfectly, and when credits starts to roll, that is the point where your interest will spike even higher, cause you want to know more ... also there is alternative ending, which digs even deeper.  Story (despite how much I enjoyed it) is sidetracked by astonishing visuals and overall aesthetics.  INSIDE looks spectacular.  Foreground and background seamlessly coming together at the center where the action lies. Work with lighting and shadow in just incredible, and the level of detail that is made because of this, is just top level.  Everything on screen is set as indented, just to give us this eerie feeling, sense of hopelessness and misfortune behind every corner. When you add to this mix great ambience sound, with on point sound design - result should leave you entirely at awe.  Controls are smooth, and on point. I didn't experience any issues whatsoever while playing with controller.  My biggest fear were puzzles. After Limbo, I was really cautious. Why? Let's just say, there were moments I rage quit a lot. Not with INSIDE. Yes, I admit, there were few instances of me getting annoyed and discouraged, but if it was up to five times I'm already exaggerating. So on this front, I was satisfied with myself that I could get thru, with only smallest possible help of guides (just a couple - I swear to God, I don't believe in). Also it was so satisfying for me, to pat my own back for job well done, when I figured something out (yes, I'm one of those people - dumb).   I won't shy away from statement, that INSIDE could easily be pinnacle of gaming in my personal experience.  This is art that should be celebrated by playing it, and afterwards recommended it to others, so they can too experience this game. I agree; story might not suit everyone (ending is probably even worse in this manner), but from technical stand point and playability this comes to very top.   Thank you Playdead for this game,  and whoever you are reading this, and still didn't play INSIDE just do it!  Grade: A+","hours":5.7}
{"funny_percent":0.028846153846153848,"helpful_percent":0.9977440375980301,"review":"INSIDE is a puzzle platformer brought to us by Playdead, the same team who made LIMBO. It’s very easy to notice the similarities between the two games, and if you’re a fan of LIMBO I believe it’s safe to say you’ll love INSIDE. That being said, INSIDE brings forth many new elements which makes it stand on its own as a unique experience and in my opinion, a masterpiece.   Like its predecessor, in INSIDE you play as a young boy as he navigates his way through a dark and mysterious world. The gameplay itself is a lot of fun, with puzzles that are extremely interesting and varied enough to not ever feel repetitive. Most of the puzzles present themselves fairly clearly, something which I found allowed me to spend less time thinking about what I had to do and more on the feeling of suspense and the actual story. This works well with the game since there is high level of tension throughout much of it, with many parts specifically designed to make it so you just barely escape the clutches of death. This makes for some moments that are very heart pounding and almost theatrical.   The atmosphere is impeccable. Everything about the way in which the game sounds and looks adds to the overall mood. The sounds and music are minimalistic, making it eerily quiet at times with just the perfect effects or music to amplify the moment. The art style is absolutely stunning and manages to add beauty to the otherwise very bleak and ominous setting of the game. Beyond that, INSIDE has some of the best animations that I’ve ever seen in a platformer. There seems to be an animation for every slight movement you could possibly make. This adds an incredible amount of character to the young boy, making him seem so much more real and causing you feel even more personally invested with his well being.  Like LIMBO, INSIDE manages to say so much without saying anything at all. It’s very story rich, but instead of holding your hand and explaining everything it leaves you to put together the pieces as you make your way through the game. The story is fantastic and wonderfully twisted, keeping you wanting to continue onwards to see what happens next. The payoff to this is enormous, as the storyline is perfectly built up to an ending that I found to be very well done. I went into this game knowing absolutely nothing about the story, and I think this is the best way to go. The manner in which everything unfolds is captivating and best experienced with a clean slate.   If you’re an achievement hunter I highly advise you to complete the game before worrying about achievements. Achievements are gained only through finding hidden objects which are scattered throughout the game. Some of these you will likely find on your own, either through exploration or simply stumbling across them. However some are pretty well hidden and take a bit more strategy to reach, and by searching how to find them online you might expose yourself to elements of the story you have not yet experienced and therefore be cheating yourself out of the full experience. Once you complete the game you are given the ability to pick and choose levels, so you can easily get the missed achievements in a matter of minutes later on. It is also worth mentioning that once you have collected all the achievements you can access an alternate ending.   My one and only complaint about this game is that it’s a bit short, taking me just a few hours to complete as well as go back and earn the achievements I had missed. However, I think this stems from my love of this game and simply being sad to see it end. Setting aside my desire to squeeze even more out of this experience, it really is a perfectly paced game, giving us enough time to fully enjoy it without going on too long and becoming stale.   The asking price might be a bit too high for some, but I can honestly say that this is not only the game of the year for me but is now one of my favorite indie titles ever, so it was well worth it to me and I’m happy to support games of this caliber. However I realize not everyone will enjoy it as much as I did or want to spend that amount, so if you’re unsure there’s never any harm in waiting until the price has dropped or you can grab it on sale.","hours":6.6}
{"funny_percent":0.02608695652173913,"helpful_percent":0.7583773591426938,"review":"If you want to feel youself inside the game, this is the right game to have. Headphones on, dark room, and chill. One of the best game experiences I've had.  Highly recommended.","hours":7.6}
{"funny_percent":0.11956521739130435,"helpful_percent":0.9400403460019393,"review":"6 years in development, 5 hours of gameplay, 0 lines of story, 1 hell of a game ... ∞ reasons to play","hours":5.2}
{"funny_percent":0.017857142857142856,"helpful_percent":0.7541601786286612,"review":"A game dripping with mystery, right down to the title. Inside? Inside where? How? When?  If you've played Limbo, you'll know generally what to expect here in terms of gameplay. Running, jumping, and suffering a brutal death when you miscalculate anything. It's smooth, beautifully animated, and controls well with a gamepad. While some sections are challenging, it's more about figuring out how not to get killed than a sheer test of platforming skill.   But there's so much more to it than that. Every minute of the game will lead you in unexpected directions. It virtually never uses the same idea twice without significant alteration. Some mechanics are even introduced once, then discarded for the rest of the game. And it's loaded with interesting ideas, keeping me excited to explore each new creepy area.   And it IS quite creepy. Not in a jumpscare horror sense. But with the unexplained hostility of enemies, and the gloomy, deteriorated backgrounds, there's a sense of something being very wrong with this world. It uses silence and emptiness to incredible effect. The word \"oppressive\" comes to mind.   Also like Limbo, the plot advances without any dialogue, exposition, or really any indication of what's really going on at all. It's loaded with clues and implications all throughout, but never outright tells you anything. You're left to wonder, right up until an ending I couldn't possibly have predicted. It left me blinking, to say the least.   It's not all that long. Just a few hours. But where a longer game would have recycled its many ideas to pad out length, Inside doesn't waste your time. You'll find yourself mentally lost in its world, unable to put it down without seeing what could possibly be next. A journey well worth taking.","hours":7.2}
{"funny_percent":0.018518518518518517,"helpful_percent":0.8105731688163597,"review":"Like its predecessor Limbo, Inside is a simple to control puzzle platformer where you guide an extremely athletic but rather fragile young boy through a perilous world towards an unknown goal, with every success likely interspersed with frequent, and sometimes horrific, deaths. But as enjoyable as Limbo was to play, Inside is simply better.  The setting is more interesting - dystopian factories, control rooms, laboratories in the midst of conducting bizarre experiments, ruined buildings, flooded underwater sections, and a handful of outdoor areas, all filled with weird, creepy, and occasionally stunning visuals, creatures, characters, and events. The puzzles hit that sweet spot of requiring contemplation and experimentation, but not requiring a walkthough, and it's thoroughly satisfying to walk into a new area, initially without a clue as to how to proceed, but then with a lever pull here, or a crate move there, have things slowly fall into place (sometimes literally) until suddenly it all makes sense and you can move on. There's a few timing-based puzzles that can get a bit frustrating, but they're nothing more than a minor negative, and are more than balanced out by some truly creative ones. Like Limbo, Inside's world is primarily black and white, but the graphical style is superior, with many areas featuring an incredible visual depth, and detailed, well-populated backgrounds. Your young avatar might be limited to moving in a 2D plane, but Inside's inhabitants are not, and sometimes a character off in the distance who initially seems like nothing more than interesting window dressing will unexpectedly rush forward to pose a significant threat. And the various character animations are excellent, particularly towards the end of the game.  And what an ending it is. Inside starts out good, gets REALLY good, and then the last half an hour is simply some of the most enjoyable, memorable gameplay I can recollect. It's all backed by a great story too, but one that's told without a single line of dialogue or written text - everything is left to your interpretation. It's the kind of game you'll find yourself thinking about after finishing, or hunting down fan theories to try to determine what the heck you just experienced. There's a brief alternate ending that can be unlocked as well, and while it's not especially impressive by itself, it certainly will supply some serious fodder to the theorists.  I expected Inside to be a solid puzzle platformer, but it's more than that, and has become one of my favorite games of 2016. If you liked Limbo, if you're a fan of the genre, or simply want to play a good, interesting, different kind of game, I highly recommend it. The only caveat is that for a game that will likely take you about six hours to complete, the current $20 dollar price tag might be off-putting. But I for one found it well worth it.","hours":7.3}
{"funny_percent":0.03937007874015748,"helpful_percent":0.7417006186150787,"review":"Well, its obvious where the Limbo developer's have been putting in their time. INSIDE is brimming with atmosphere, feelings, and attention to detail. I mean it doesn't take more than 10 minute to see how meticulously hand-crafted and polished this title is. The only question in my mind, really, is if its worth the debatably steep asking price. For me? Oh sure, you bet. You aren't going to get 20 hours (likely closer to 3-5), but damn, you will get an experience. While I enjoyed Limbo, I thought INSIDE was overall much better.  Essentially, this is a walking/experience simulator with medium-level puzzles. And I don't mean 'walking simulator' in a derogatory way - its great fun. I should note that this game is rather dark, triggering some moderate level anxiety at moments. Definately scary at times, too.  Pros: +Definately some of the most attention-to-details I've seen in a game. What points it loses for overall length, it definately gains in being one of the highest of quality experiences. +Sounds and music are outstanding. +The feelings are real, with this one. You will definatley go through a range of emotions. +'Storyline' is quite original, albeit abstract. Don't expect to walk away understanding everything. +Thankfully, the puzzles aren't super difficult. This is more focused on the experience, which I appreciated. +The scope of the rooms and areas were just magnificient.  +Controller support is great.  Cons: -Definately expensive, although they arguably earned their money. The devil is in the details. Those animations are obviously all custom. -Some moments verged on being too anxiety ridden/scary for me. Thankfully I pushed through and it worked out well, though. -While there was a range of environments, I would have liked to see less 'Portal factory' and more perhaps outside. Its fine, and I'm being slightly picky, but there it is.  For any indie game enthusiast, this is a must have. Now with that being said, I'm sure if you wait, it will be on a half-price sale sooner than later. Either way, make sure you play through this game some time in 2016.","hours":4.2}
{"funny_percent":0.0392156862745098,"helpful_percent":0.7788976966060651,"review":"INSIDE is a sidescrolling platformer made by Playdead, who also made Limbo. The game will feel very familiar if you have played Limbo back in the day. The gameplay mechanics and even to some degree, the atmosphere feels similar. The game looks and sounds absolutely beautiful.   Graphics:   The game features one of the best looking visuals I have seen on a sidescoller game. The graphics are somewhat simplistic, the characters don’t even have face features, they all just have a blank face and that’s probably the art-style chosen deliberately by the developers to convey their vision of the game. To add that mood and atmosphere to the game. The game always ran on 60 FPS for me, not a drop at any time. The FPS are locked at 60 FPS.  Sound:   Like the graphics, the sounds are minimal too but as an aritisic choice. The ambient music, the minimalistic sounds really add to the already creepy atmosphere of the game. In the intense moments of games such as enemies chasing you and closing in on you, heartbeat sounds can be heard which really add to the whole creepy experience of the game.  Gameplay:   Similar to Limbo, you just start off in the game and nothing is explained. The story is left up to the users to interpret. INSIDE starts off with you, a boy, dropped off in a forest. You start going forward, only to find out that you’re being hunted and the people in the background are looking for you and upon sighting, you they will chase you down and kill you. They have dogs as well who will relentlessly chew you down when they catch you. These enemies are usually in the background but they can spot you and run towards you to the foreground.  Similar to Limbo, you have almost exactly the same running patter, you can jump very similarly and can drag objects, open doors and grab onto ledges to pull yourself up etc. That’s the basic movement in this game. There are new puzzle types introduced in this game like the mind controlling of the almost zombie like humans. The puzzles themselves are not hard at all and at most take 2-3 attempts before you figure them out. There are a few longer puzzles too, one for example require you wandering in at least 4 places looking for more zombie mind controllable humans.  The game’s setting can be really atmospheric. Some segments which are underwater or segments with dogs chasing after you in a short space can make you feel downright claustrophobic. To avoid any spoilers, I will not go in detail about what sort of puzzles there are as most of the puzzles are only used once in the game. So you can expect plenty of different types of puzzles in the game.  There are forest sections in the game, the inside of different buildings sections, underwater sections, there’s even underground sections. Some sections such as a test lab and other various environments can be found in the game, all of which look beautiful. You also get to play as a different character(s), at the end of the game, I won’t say which to avoid spoilers. The game is said to have 2 endings but I have only seen the one which was quite weird to be honest.  A short gameplay video can be found below, though I’d advice not to watch it if you are planning on buying as it will spoil some part of the game for you.   INSIDE Gameplay [60FPS]  A Video of INSIDE By: Thugnificent   Graphics: 10/10 Sound: 9/10 Gameplay: 9/10 Overall: 9/10  Conclusion:   The game is absolutely gorgeous to look at and sounds incredible. It’s an experience you most likely won’t forget soon. Simply said, it’s a masterpiece and a must play for people who like atmospheric and tense games. People who enjoyed Limbo will definitely enjoy this game too. The game is pretty short, about 3 hours of gameplay total, so if you think the price is high for that much content you can always wait for a sale and get the game when it’s cheaper.","hours":5.2}
{"funny_percent":0.041379310344827586,"helpful_percent":0.8651286636724191,"review":"I see people complaining how short this game is. Personally, I'd rather play 3-5 hours of perfection than 50+ of repetitive, unoriginal crap.   The atmosphere and design are like nothing I've ever seen in a platform styled game. To be honest, you're doing INSIDE a disservice by considering it a platformer. The puzzles are challenging, yet not frustrating, and the ending leaves you with chills. TIP: (minor spoiler)   This game is a genuine masterpiece.","hours":4.3}
{"funny_percent":0.03225806451612903,"helpful_percent":0.9986670615691836,"review":"This is, by far, one of the most intense gaming experiences I've ever had. Not intense as in action packed, or scary, more in that it gives you a feeling of despair, dread, and uneasy curiosity. The animation, mechanics, and pacing are about as close to perfect as you'll find.  The puzzles are woven into the world like they're meant to be there, not just as an added puzzle to an adventure game. There's also a ton of secrets for those that like to explore.  This is one of those experiences gives you ineffable feelings that you won't ever have from anything else.   Every frame is a work of art. A beautiful, and extremely disturbing work of art.   Absolutely worth every penny at full price.   ","hours":3.7}
{"funny_percent":0.015151515151515152,"helpful_percent":0.7764346896173243,"review":"INSIDE was a bit more atmospheric, interesting and deeper than LIMBO. but alot shorter. The puzzles were easier.. I loved everything about it, besides it being so short for 20 dollars. It was very fun and I highly recommend it. I have a feeling anything Playdead comes out with will be enjoyable.","hours":4.6}
{"funny_percent":0.08695652173913043,"helpful_percent":0.9564361128052643,"review":"What I would give to be able to experience this for the first time again.","hours":3.4}
{"funny_percent":0.041666666666666664,"helpful_percent":0.7216083336445013,"review":"Inside is for sure a work of art before considering it as a game One of the most unique and strange expreinces i've ever had in a game period...","hours":4.6}
{"funny_percent":0.06875,"helpful_percent":0.7084786435676212,"review":"Inside is a really great game and I don't really want to give anything away with a review, so I will just summarize;  -The graphics and sound are just stunningly well done -The gameplay is smooth, fun and controls great -It builds an excellent atmosphere with uniquely eery storytelling -Has puzzles and mechanics that are clever while not becoming tiresome  There are some totally unique things about this game that you will want to have experienced yourself, It's really something amazing. I highly recommend.  Easily one of my favorite gaming experiences of all time. Great job developers. :)","hours":2.9}
{"funny_percent":0.022727272727272728,"helpful_percent":0.8187617621014112,"review":"This game is just... PERFECTION !  It's very rare that I write something like that but the fact is, this game is a masterpiece !  Great gameplay, the traps are simple and complicated at the same time, the global design is a piece of art as the sound design very well done ! What can we expect more than a perfect and genuine game, challenging it with a real pleasure from his beginning to his end !?  OK, the awards don't match here and there is something to do for resolve it but this game is NEVER annoying !  Enjoy and have some good time on it ! ;-)","hours":3.1}
{"funny_percent":0.04,"helpful_percent":0.7043865057842507,"review":"This game is an experience. It tells a story with a deceptive amount of depth, but doesn't use a single line of dialogue. The sounds, visuals, and mechanics all work together to evoke a very particular emotion.  It's not for everyone by any stretch, but it does instill a range of feelings in the player, and that's pretty neat.","hours":2.7}
{"funny_percent":0.02,"helpful_percent":0.8271920035093451,"review":"It took Playdead 6 years to make a game that can be completed in 3 hours but after playing I can see why it took them that long. Some of the best puzzle design I have ever seen in a platformer, rounded up with that sense of mystery and amazing sound design that Playdead is known for with their first game, Limbo.  Speaking of, whereas in Limbo the game was focused on trial&error death traps, Inside has a more elaborate puzzle design where only rarely do you feel like you died or failed a sequence because the game was holding a crucial piece from you. Therefore comparisons to the former game should be made carefully, Inside is a much more invested platformer. It's an experience that I'll never forget and that I can't really talk about in detail because it is best seen for yourself. Inside is more than the sum of its parts.","hours":4.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9653534934437197,"review":"As usual, PlayDead can do no wrong. Their second game, ever (their first was LIMBO--another awesomely magnificent and fun game), INSIDE features a young boy on a dark night, trying to escape a world in which you know something has gone seriously wrong in, but don't quite know what yet. Getting piece by piece as to what happened as you go along, you follow the lad in a game with delightful, clever puzzles, awesome graphics with the best attention to even the littlest detail, graphic, morbid, and real scenes of what one must do sometimes...to survive... ...or the grim truth of what may happen if you get caught.  A true masterpiece of a game.","hours":14.1}
{"funny_percent":0.08695652173913043,"helpful_percent":0.7335491276132233,"review":"Run, kid, run.   And stumble, fall, get back on your feet and run some more. Then, jump, swim, crawl.  Hide.  They're after you, all of them.  They won't let you go.  I can hear you breathe, your heart is pounding.  Scared and brave, you keep going, keep running. Where are you taking me, kid? Where am I taking you?  Oh, how many dark places, such dangers we have encountered. Yet you keep running, they won't stop you, I promise. I will help you.  Because that's what you want me to do, right?   °°° Sometimes the word \"game\" doesn't fit well. If something wraps you in its world, atmosphere and doesn't let you go, not even when the whole thing is done, if you feel you're not the same anymore once it's finished, \"game\" can't be the right word. Yet, INSIDE couldn't be more classic in its gameplay: a 2D side-scrolling platformer without levels, with puzzles to be solved in order to progress, jumps to take, dangers to avoid etc. Yet again, it's immersive in such a powerful way that it makes you forget that those are mere gameplay mechanisms: you are in the story, so each action you perform is part of that.  The music, or better, the lack of it most of the time, just the ambient sounds from a deserted landscape, the kid's hearbeat sometimes, so that when music suddenly starts, it leaves you speechless (there's a specific moment when this happens underwater, whose beauty and feeling of agoraphobia I won't easily forget). And the dim light most of the time. So that each time you run into sunshine, you want the kid to bask in it... and stop for a little, because you have no idea when - and if - he'll feel that sunshine again.  Overall, its bleak atmosphere engulfs you in ways that I'm finding hard to explain. As I previously said, INSIDE stays with you long after everything is done, leaving you with countless questions and a mix of inexplicable feelings.   I nominated INSIDE for 2017 “Haunts My Dreams” Award.","hours":12.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7647512896191828,"review":"Inside is amazing. It's a pretty short one, but the graphic style, sounds, atmosphere are all really good. Gameplay is pretty simple, going from left to right most of the time and you have a lot of clever puzzles to solve, while admiring the beautiful areas you go through. It's a mysterious journey and the ending is also cool, not what I expected.  Hella recommended :).","hours":5.9}
{"funny_percent":0.1,"helpful_percent":0.7739761705912549,"review":"I cannot recommend this dark, very atmospheric puzzle platformer highly enough. Its definitely not for everyone - the tone is dark throughout and positively black in the third act. But if you liked Limbo you should definitely check it out. It's a beautiful work of dark, twisted, insane genius  10/10 would not recommend to my grandmother...","hours":3.9}
{"funny_percent":0.023255813953488372,"helpful_percent":0.7879550059383893,"review":"Having just finished the game at 100% I can say that it is really a masterpiece, the ambience, the graphics, the sound, all the boy's animations are increible, it really makes you feel the urgency in what you're doing. The puzzles are easier than in LIMBO, but still fun. If you liked LIMBO, this feel like the evolution of that kind of storytelling.  If you don't get stuck, the game lasts for about 2 hours on the first playthrough, it will take you 6 or 7 if you want to discover all the secrets. So if you think that's too little, wait for a sale, but if you do, you're risking for people to tell you about the ending... So it's your loss.  I really enjoyed every second of it. So to me it was worth the price.","hours":6.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9510298449515295,"review":"Inside, a little BIG game.  The game is so good, it does everything it offers in the short time of its playthrough, and don't waste your time for repeating it's elements.  Gameplay is simple with some well crafted puzzles, the Atmosphere is so beautiful, it will deliver all the senses that it want to you  and the Details in this game are awesome, every little thing in this game has details, from animations to objects, lights, shadows. well done  I mostly like story to be more clear, but this game don't want this, it wants you to tell and find your story, and yes it does it so good  I Recommend this game to everyone.","hours":4.2}
{"funny_percent":0.030303030303030304,"helpful_percent":0.8779017886044447,"review":"If you loved Limbo, you'll love Inside too. Try the demo.","hours":6}
{"funny_percent":0.05,"helpful_percent":0.9119191154458511,"review":"This game has amazing ideas with puzzles. I hope to win best game this year 2016. Recommended to anyone like challenge","hours":4.8}
{"funny_percent":0.039473684210526314,"helpful_percent":0.918644661968609,"review":"Brilliant game. Playing at night in darkness with headphones extremely recommended.","hours":6.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7085724120036331,"review":"Presentation  Putting Inside into words is difficult. Not because I can’t describe it but because it needs to be experienced firsthand to truly appreciate the game without having it spoiled.  Inside starts in a familiar way, upon starting the game you are dropped right into the dark world of Inside. Taking control of a nameless boy caught in a dark hostile world that is out to kill him. Sounds like Limbo does it not?  --------------------------------------------------------------  Gameplay  Like its predecessor Limbo, Inside is a straight forward 2D puzzle platformer with seamlessly incorporated environmental traps and challenges. They flow perfectly into the game that is free of any immersion breaking cut scenes. While Interaction with the game is bound to control of the boy, this time around we are treated to some colors in a 2.5d view.  The puzzles are cleverly incorporated into the world. The interaction with the environment is limited to, running, climbing, pushing and pulling but amazing things have been achieved with these mechanics. From simpler traversal of objects to controlling a a little water sub-marine and more complicated control of machinery. They never interrupt the narrative or feel forced into the game, a welcomed evolution from its older brother, Limbo.   Inside does have more colour, offering a more realistic approach than Limbo but the game remains dark, giving the entire thing a bleak look. The brighter back drops stand out and contrast with a world mostly overcast by decay and destruction. Abandoned buildings, dark forests, deep, murky waters. There’s a beauty in this visual style so dystopian and gloomy, it lends itself well to the rest of the games ambience.   In a similar fashion, the audio is unique in style. Harrowing, flashes of music underscoring the distinct sounds of gushing rain, loud machinery, or running footsteps or the crushing of bones and flesh...  Story  Similar to Limbo there is something more to the troubles of traversing the puzzles in the boys path. Because Inside runs into a much deeper, disturbing territory. The narrative is implicit, the story is fed to the player through environmental details. The protagonist is apparently on the run but the world and its inhabitants are unforgiving and take no mercy on the fragile little boy, dropped all alone into a hostile place. A society has enslaved people and is using them against their will- the boy slowly uncovers the extent of this- I don't want to spoil any more.  What makes Inside so special is that a deep, mysterious undertone, something indescribable permeates the atmosphere of the game. As you traverse deeper into this nightmarish adventure you slip inside to uncover a darker secret than you initially expected to find. Why are the people being controlled, who are you running from? What lies inside?  --------------------------------------------------------------  PROS: Uncompromising atmosphere Cleverly incorporated puzzles Puzzles are diverse, not repetitive or frustrating Flawless, clean 2.5D visuals Top notch sound and music Achievements as an extra reward --------------------------------------------------------------  CONS:  Game length, to whom it matters; Inside can be finished in 5 hrs if you're in a hurry (Much less of a problem than Limbo) A few unforgiving trial and error puzzles No graphics or resolution settings --------------------------------------------------------------  Conclusion  Inside is a must have for anybody that enjoyed Limbo. Even those that felt disappointed by Limbo will find an augmented and improved experience that doesn’t lose focus or frustrates the player. Inside improves upon every aspect of its older brother. Improved visuals and narrative, sound design, enemies and puzzles. It is an intelligent adventure with gloomy visuals and a powerful dark atmosphere of a haunting world. --------------------------------------------------------------  A thrilling adventure, stay inside and enjoy this game! Get it especially while it's on sale!  9.5/10","hours":22.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7584601814605628,"review":"INSIDE is a 2.5D psychological puzzler from Play Dead studios. The game is an evolution of the studio’s previous game, Limbo. If you played Limbo, then you know the type of harrowing experience lies in front of you. If not, then you are in for one of the most atmospheric games ever made.  The game starts with a boy dropping down into what it seems like a forest. As you slowly make your way across the forest, the first thing you notice is your footsteps. There is no music, no dialog; all you hear is your footsteps echoing across your path. This drives home one of the most important themes of the game; isolation. You start with an avalanche of questions; you get some answers along your path, but more pop up. This is a dystopian world, which is open to self-interpretation with no guided narrative. I have a feeling this is intentionally designed. The boy, just like the player, has no idea what is going on. This helps the player to connect with the boy and in-turn, get a more authentic feeling of the world around them. Inside focuses all its attention to this level of environmental storytelling and it works ever so well. Where most games put you on the shoes of a capable super soldier of some kind. Being a lonely boy in a dystopian world such as this makes you feel more vulnerable and careful with every move you make.   You will be doing a good mix of platforming and puzzle solving. The controls are not designed to be precise but are more wobbly; this makes perfect sense in relation to the player-controlled protagonist. The platforming therefore do not ask more from the player than it is possible with the controls. Puzzles do not seem to be designed to challenge players and more importantly, beyond the capabilities of the boy, but injected as another core storytelling delivery. Being so fragile in such a hostile world, regular deaths is pretty much guaranteed. Observant players however can avoid many of these deaths, as the game drops down hints leading up to a kill-zone.   I love horror games in general. Where most horror games tend to use superficial themes; such as zombies, ghosts, aliens, etc. Playdead games tend to stick to more realistic and peculiar tones, which players can better connect. The game ends up peaking our curiosity while raising our heart beat at the same time. This is something what I like to call Genuine Horror which is, at least to me, is the most effective flavor of horror.   The game is a big upgrade over the silhouette-style of their previous game, Limbo. The visuals no longer follow the style of its forebear, but go for a more realistic but still stylistic tone. The sound played a huge role in Limb, and continues to do for Inside. The sound production and design is incredible to the point it is hard to believe it is an indie game. Animation beautifully meshes them together. It goes for double duty by amplifying the narrative further by making the boy feel more like a boy than just a small protagonist with all the nuances you would expect from a kid.   There used to be a time where videogames used to surprise me. They were an emotional rollercoaster ride. However as I grew up, these things became clichés and forgot those feelings I had when playing a game. Inside is one of the very few games after so many years, which managed to wake up those dormant experiences.   Inside is not a long game and I am glad the studio did not stretch it out and sacrifice the pacing as a result. Had I played this game last year, it would have been my game of the year.   10/10 - I can't think of any flaw in this game","hours":5}
{"funny_percent":0.05405405405405406,"helpful_percent":0.8151170768057958,"review":"I don't make reviews, but I have to comment this. It's really good. When you go to play I recommend to you emerge completely in the game. Sit back comfortably, turn off the lights and put on good headphones. That makes all the difference. My congratulations to all who made the audio because without it the game wouldn't be the same. You play paying close attention to the sounds, they make you apprehensive and when you notice, the beat at the background of the sound is actually your heart. Fans of LIMBO will not be disappointed. The graphics are great, the puzzles are engaging, you sleep thinking about the game. I particularly LOVED this game, it is in the atmosphere style that I enjoy and I really like the games that don't need much to impress and make you recommend. Simple in gameplay, in controls, but I felt it to be somewhat philosophical and critical, not just a puzzle. You love and hate some things in him. I've already been impressed by being a child who goes through things that you think \"is just a child\" and \"WHAT?\". I'm a student of game design so yes, I noticed everything you did, every detail. Wet, dry, movements (that by the way looks great!), the backgrounds, sonoplasty, among other things that I don't want to give spoiler for who read. I finished the game and thought \"Oh, was too short ... I wish played more ...\". Reflecting about this I can affirm that the time is perfect. Unless this would be too short and more than that would be too long for the kind of game. It really impresses me when a game of simple appearance shows us to be much more and makes success with it. Another peculiarity is that it isn't realistic in graphics, but there are events that reminds you that the character is human, hasn't power, has human conditions, is mortal. And why a face?? If you actually counts what happens INSIDE. So in this aspect he became very realistic. And this only proves that games can be very good without having to be as realistic as possible in the graphics, without looking like a movie. Congratulations for the game, I recommend it!  ---------------------------  Não sou de fazer review mas esse eu tenho que comentar. É realmente bom. Quando for jogar recomendo emergir completamente no game. Sente-se confortavelmente, apague as luzes e coloque bons fones. Isso faz toda a diferença. Meus parabéns à quem bolou todo o áudio, por que sem isso o jogo não seria o mesmo. Você joga prestando muita atenção aos sons, eles te deixam apreenssivo e quando você nota, a batida no fundo do som na verdade é seu coração. Fãs de LIMBO não vão se decepcionar. Os gráficos são ótimos, os puzzles são envolventes, você dorme pensando no jogo. Eu particularmente AMEI esse jogo, é no estilo de atmosfera que eu curto e super aprecio os jogos que não precisam de muito para impressionar e te fazer recomendar. Simples na jogabilidade, nos controles, mas senti que é um tanto filosófico e crítico, não apenas um puzzle. Você ama e odeia certas coisas nele. Já comecei me impressionando por ser uma criança que passa por coisas que você pensa \"é só uma criança\" e \"O QUE?\". Sou estudante de design de games então sim, eu notei tudo o que vocês fizeram, cada detalhe. Molhado, seco, movimentos (que a propósito ficaram ótimos!), os backgrounds, sonoplastia, entre outras coisas que não quero dar spoiler para quem ler. Terminei o jogo e pensei \"poxa foi muito curto... queria ter jogado mais...\". Refletindo sobre isso posso afirmar que o tempo é perfeito. Menos que isso seria muito curto e mais do que isso seria muito longo para o tipo de jogo. Realmente me impressiona quando um jogo de aparência simples nos mostra ser bem mais e faz sucesso com isso. Outra peculiaridade é que ele não é realista nos gráficos, mas tem acontecimentos que te faz lembrar que o personagem é humano, não tem um poder, tem condições humanas, é mortal. E para quê um rosto? Se na realidade conta o que acontece INSIDE (dentro). Então nesse aspecto ele cumpriu muito com o \"realista\". E isso só prova que os jogos podem sim ser muito bons sem ter que ser o mais realista possível nos gráficos, sem parecer um filme. Parabéns pelo game, recomendo!","hours":11}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8334544272391994,"review":"I will try and keep this short, because truthfully half the fun of Inside is knowing next to nothing about it. You play as an unnamed, faceless character probably best just called “Boy,” who is on the run in some sort of weird dystopian industrial hellscape where he’s pursued by men with hunting dogs. The goal is to avoid death or capture, and though there isn’t a “story” per se, you will be introduced to an exceedingly bizarre world full of monsters both friendly and hostile.  For me Inside stands out because it's platforming gameplay make use of the basics and lets just say it makes use of them amazingly. It’s pretty simple, really. You run and you jump, you pull levers and open doors, you push crates and swing on chains. Sometimes, the game introduces specific mechanics, like where you have uh, “allies” that assist you with certain tasks, and there’s even a vehicle segment. But there’s no overriding gimmick, nor does your character level up or gain new abilities.  The puzzles are difficult enough to be interesting, but simple enough not to be frustrating. Some of my favorite segments included the use of “allies” to complete tasks, and I also really enjoyed outsmarting enemies that are out to kill you.  The game’s core appeal is probably not in its mechanics, but its art style and atmosphere, which creates haunting, sprawling areas which bring life to this strange but wonderful world. You, as “Boy,” will meet some violent ends, however. I was ripped apart by dogs, strangled by guards, blown into pieces by sonic blasts and shredded by underwater fans to the point where I could see my 2D intestines streaming out of my body. So in short, watch out.  The ending sequence is one of the most wonderfully bizarre things I’ve ever seen in a game, and to say any more would be a crime, as it’s just something you have to experience for yourself.  The game is very short. I beat it in just under four hours but I probably could have done it in less time had a few puzzles not tripped me up for extended periods of time. And while I like the sense of mystery that surrounds the world of the game, I would have liked a few more clues as to what on earth was going on in this world, but the game offers you exactly nothing which adds to the overally mystery of the game. I suppose that’s its own sort of fun and part of the concept’s appeal.  So to conclude Inside is an incredible game, a compelling artistic achievement that deserves your time no matter what genre of game you would normally play or prefer. I wish there was a little bit more to it, but between the gameplay, the animation and the atmosphere, it’s enough to be a worthwhile experience. Playdead have earned my attention, and they should have yours too.","hours":3.9}
{"funny_percent":0.05263157894736842,"helpful_percent":0.93001674663178,"review":"I played the demo of INSIDE initially and was immediately astounded at how atmospheric the game was. This was after playing only a few minutes of gameplay.   The graphical style is dark throughout but well-defined and moves along really smoothly. The animations are truly amazing and the sound effects perfectly complement the graphics style. It's worth turning up the volume, especially low frequencies!! Later on in the game they make for an awe inspiring experience.  What I really love about INSIDE is the design of the game. So many \"Puzzle Platformers\" try to increase apparent content by using puzzles requiring repetition or forcing the player to revisit earlier areas. There is none of that in INSIDE. The game evolves nicely into unique undefined sections, the gameplay never becomes stale or repetitive.  Some may say the downside of this is a fairly short completion time, it should take around three hours or so. I'd MUCH prefer to have three+ hours of quality, non-repetitive, intriguing gameplay than rehashed puzzles/zone/etc padding it out into six or seven hours of frustrating boredom!  I've had the game only a few days and nearly completed a second playthrough. It's such an enjoyable experience to replay, this is the genius of the design.  The puzzles aren't pitched at a high difficulty level, they're just right to be enjoyable and not to have to resort to searching the interweb for solutions.  The game never explains itself, I really enjoy this ambiguity. When the game ended, I felt it was right. It feels like a work of art, not just due to how it presents itself visually but the emotion it leaves you with at the end.  This could possibly be my GOTY 2016. I need more time for everything to really sink in. It is though, without doubt a masterpiece!","hours":8.1}
{"funny_percent":2.975,"helpful_percent":0.9884079707367693,"review":"Stop playing outside and go play inside.","hours":4.9}
{"funny_percent":0.03389830508474576,"helpful_percent":0.8095074842128483,"review":"A lonely and terrifying journey that will disturb you to the core. The amount of effort gone into the atmosphere and environment design makes this game a true masterpiece. The perfect successor to Playdead's previous game LIMBO.","hours":3.5}
{"funny_percent":1.05,"helpful_percent":0.7983422925149922,"review":"I don't know what happened in this game, but I liked it.","hours":8.3}
{"funny_percent":0.07246376811594203,"helpful_percent":0.9544840879924422,"review":"Manages to tell a gripping story without a single word.  Tip: follow yellow power lines.","hours":6.2}
{"funny_percent":0.057692307692307696,"helpful_percent":0.9359182137013906,"review":"A very well done, but very short 2d puzzle platformer. As short as it is, I feel as I got my money's worth and the extended period of time the makers of Limbo took to perfect this game was not time wasted. The story behind it all is strange, fascinating, connects itself to Limbo in some ways, and ends spectacularly. I highly recommend this.","hours":7.9}
{"funny_percent":0.010101010101010102,"helpful_percent":0.7645671110262864,"review":"Don't know why people say that hours in the videogame count towards the cost. Sure its 2-3 hours long, but that for me just makes me crave more of the game. Games shouldn't be based on hours played, but around the experience you had. I loved this game, everything seemed intentional. I would rather have a short amazing experience than a barebones, stretched out, boring experience, with just more gameplay. This game deserves more than very good, it deserves Overwhemingly Positive.","hours":3.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7826344108237442,"review":"Here is my review for Inside, and whether I think the game is worth a buy.  Content: Inside is a very quality indie game, that will take you probably 4-5 hrs. It is fully worth the $20 in my opinion, it's short, but what you get is amazing.  Graphics and art: Inside has a very simple, dark, and brooding art style, that will immerse and intrigue you.  Controls: simple, precise and in my opinion are best used with a controller and to relax.  Gameplay: Puzzles ranging from very simple, to extremely difficult, mainly that is what the  gameplay is focused on, so if you're a puzzle fan, you'll love it.  Story: Deep, dark, confusing, and full of twists, it's an amazing story that will keep you guessing till the end.  Performance: Runs great, low system requirements, can be run on even my friends old mac.  Sound: Extremely well done, everything sounds crisp and clear.  (One more thing, try and get all the acheveiments, it unlocks a secret ending that will help explain alot about the story.)  Overall score: 9/10  If you're a puzzle or 2d fan, or liked limbo, this is highly recommended, a beautiful, intriguing story and world, filled with twists.","hours":5.7}
{"funny_percent":0.034482758620689655,"helpful_percent":0.9287152069018029,"review":"I've never watched a movie nor played a game that makes me kick and scream at my screen more than this game.  Honestly, there were tons of moments where I would end up without breath and need to take a break from the, stress, thrill? A great story with many, and I mean many, close calls. I'm a huge fan of the gameplay mechanics and the small details in the game. The puzzles are straight forward and aren't too tough to complete although there were 2 points where I had to go look up a walkthrough to get pass some points.  Soundtrack and the audio was on point *insert perfect hand emojie here* and when you get immersed you're going for a rollercoaster ride.  Thoughts on story ending.    Definatelly a great game and I highly recommend it!","hours":3.6}
{"funny_percent":0.037037037037037035,"helpful_percent":0.9082141712806557,"review":"I don't think I'll have nice and happy dreams after this..  Not anymore.. Not even \"normal\" ones.. Most WTF game I've ever played. 10/10  December 2016 Edit :  Inside won \"Best Art Direction\" and \"Best Independent Game\" Awards in The Game Awards 2016 Very well deserved indeed.","hours":9.3}
{"funny_percent":0.0967741935483871,"helpful_percent":0.9896940908825924,"review":"Moody, dark, atmospheric and sometimes downright creepy. Nice graphics and simple gameplay and lots of little puzzles thrown in. Semi-challenging but not too much. The game only lasts about 4 hours if you are a little slow with some of the puzzles. The game is a little too short in my opinion. I would recommend waiting for a sale. Nice design though.","hours":10.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9544682629816208,"review":"The game is absolutely masterful, great controls, stunning artistic graphics, eerie atmosphere and the ending feels perfect, the never ending puruse of freedom and the pirric victory.","hours":4.7}
{"funny_percent":0.01694915254237288,"helpful_percent":0.8407081695893777,"review":"The less you know about this game the better. I'll keep it simple; for any fan of platformer genre, this is master class. Well done PlayDead, this game is a masterpiece of the genre.","hours":1.8}