{"funny_percent":0.24497681607418856,"helpful_percent":0.7525006879331966,"review":"Words alone cannot express how amazing KSP is.  To be honest, this is not a game for everyone. If you are in the market for some fast-paced \"space combat sim\" with all kinds of weapons and big explosions, then this isn't what you are looking for. (Except for the big explosions... KSP has you covered there).  However, if you ever dreamed of actually being an astronaut, this is definitely for you. If you sometimes forget to breath when watching recordings of the Apollo moon landings, this is definitely for you. If precise, measured flying; careful planning; and delta-v budgeting are what drives you, this is definitely for you. If you want to learn about Orbital Mechanics and are dying to know what the Oberth Effect or a Hofman Transfer Orbit are, this is definitely for you. If you like Physics, this is definitely for you.  Optionally, if you just like building rediculously large rockets and watching them explode with glorious comedy when they fail catastrophically because you forgot ONE PART... then this is also definitely for you.  Kerbal Space Program is challenging, fun, frustrating, mind boggling, huge, hilarious, complicated, deep, and just plain awesome.","hours":1980.5}
{"funny_percent":0.012529550827423169,"helpful_percent":0.9297410985054402,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW One day my daughter came home from school and asked me \"Have people actually travelled to the Moon? How is it possible?\"  Two years ago, I would have answered \"yes, but I don't really know how. It's very complicated, with lots of math and science. You might learn about it in a physics class in 10 years time.\"  Instead, I answered \"Here, let me show you.\" and fired up Kerbal Space Program. We built a moon rocket and launched it, me steering and she hitting the separation detonation buttons when needed. 30 minutes later we had landed on the moon.  Thank you, Squad, for enabling me to give that answer.","hours":187.1}
{"funny_percent":0.027366387636831937,"helpful_percent":0.8182324095835982,"review":"Love this game to bits.   - Developers output updates semi-often (couple months between them) and none of them ruin the game in any way. - Absurd amounts of content that make the game very well worth the hefty pricetag. - Mod-compatible (although they are not on the steam workshop) - A very friendly community. Easily one of the best I've seen. - Well-polished physics that (hopefully) won't bug out on you much. For a 3D physics-based game, it works astoundingly well. - If you're interested in the science and physics part of the game, it can be fairly math-based, which is probably good if you're into science and physics anyways.   Issues: - Very hard to understand at first. I'll admit to watching 3 let's plays about KSP before knowing how to play it. - UI and controls are a bit confusing. They get more comfortable later on, but at the start it's frustrating. - Takes a good amount of previous knowledge.   Get to know the game and it's really enjoyable. I'd highly recommend going on youtube if you don't understand it.","hours":401.5}
{"funny_percent":0.09657320872274143,"helpful_percent":0.9354634454100703,"review":"If you have a deep longing to attempt landing on the surface of a star, or the gumption to fling countless people into space without any consideration toward their lives, then this may be the game for you. Failure is the only option.  Most of your best stories will have nothing to do with what went right on a standard planet-to-planet maneuver, or how you really nailed that Hohmann transfer. No, it'll probably be the flaming wreckage you created where no one should have survived, but somehow did. My game once glitched as a Kerbal was falling from the upper atmosphere and he bounced on the surface. He bounced! And not in the crumpled heap of flesh and bone matter way. He bounced off the ground and appeared to be coming in for a graceful finish to a mission gone horribly wrong--the only type of mission that truly exists. He fell from space! And lived! Forget space, erect a statue!  My first manned mission to the Mun ended in predictable failure. I tried landing without any sort of landing gear. How, you might ask? By landing on the engine so it was primed for vertical takeoff. I forgot about my horizontal velocity, however, and ended up ripping the engine apart. I had all the fuel I needed for a return mission, but the broken engine was left kilometers away. Oops. At least I could plant a cool flag.  I attempted a rescue mission, because that is the first irresponsible thing everyone always thinks to do: stranded person in space? Send more people to help them! The first mission collided with the Mun at 600 m/s. Rough landing. The second mission landed, but I was probably 50km away--which isn't all that bad, all things considered. I had the stranded Kerbal run toward the landed ship, but it was taking forever. So I started using his little jetpack to expedite things. Lemons and lemonade. As it turns out, you can actually disintegrate a Kerbal if you get too much forward momentum and collide with something solid, like the surface of the Mun. You will forever be in our thoughts, Mac Kerman.  So much for the rescue. I may as well have the rescue team return safely. Remember that landing gear part? Yeah, I still hadn't updated that section of the ship. Instead I landed on my side and planned on using elevation as a natural ramp. Bulletproof logic. At least this Kerbal had the dignity of a fiery, fiery death. An honorable death. By my own hands.  In KSP, your little Kerbal guys can die and be listed in the ambiguous \"Lost\" column. It was with great sorrow that I saw Mac Kerman's name in there. I didn't care so much about the other guys. Who cares about the second guy on the Mun? But here's the thing, several years into my career mode Mac magically reappeared and was ready for action! He came back from the dead! And what was the first thing he wanted to do? Go back into space! To die again!  In conclusion, yes to this game. Just yes. I currently have a Kerbal orbiting the second moon, Minmus. Yes, he is in a stable orbit without a ship. Just him. And he's been there for close to 30 years now. I'll get around to that at some point.  Update: Still in orbit.","hours":123}
{"funny_percent":0.011428571428571429,"helpful_percent":0.7914447017395063,"review":"To remove any doubts, this is by far THE best space simulator out there.  The Good Amazing learning experience Choose where you want to go, with what, when, and how. HUGE planets to discover, literally, thousands upon thousands of kilometers to walk, drive, or fly your epic creations (or, if your not very creative, preset or other players' ships) Create awesome rockets, landers,ore collection/ astronaut housing bases on other planets, and spaceplanes, the way you want them Fun science mode to work your way up, earning \"science\" in order to get better equipment and rocket parts (I recommend for newish players who know at least basic orbits / how to get to the Mun) \"Creative\" mode where all parts are unlocked (great for testing and trying new things) \"Career\" mode for those really wanting a challenge (balance economy, science, and reputation for your own space organization, I recommend having a little more experience before jumping right in) The Career mode adds A LOT of purpose to the game, as well as adding new challenges such as having to make landings in certain locations, sending satellites in specific orbits, making space stations at specific altitudes, placing a flag on a certain body, collecting ore from a planet, etc. They are still adding to this game... Additionally, there are several user created mods that really expand on the experience, adding new parts or game mechanics. Built off of real physics! One doesn't just lop space junk up into the sky; one must deliver that space junk the realistic and correct way, thus rendering Kepler and Newton proud!!! (generally speaking, it allows one to see how actual launches and orbits work in the real world) Many other great aspects to this game (however, this would be a long list with all of them) The Bad Graphics aren't the best, however, they are still good and create a real sense of depth and can deliver a \"lost-in-space\" kind of a feel... It makes me feel so small compared to the vastness of our world. Plus, the graphical style really fits the style of the overall game.  Somewhat steep learning curve- It took me a while to learn to get to the \"Mun.\" After this achievement, it was a lot easier to get to Minmus after this. It was difficult to get to Duna, however, once I got there, I have gradually learned enough to go pretty much anywhere and have made a permanent base on Laythe complete with science lab, crew pod and a brand spanking new air breathing engine jet transport, as well as a souped up Rover for them to drive. I have been to almost all of the planets. So basically, it takes time to get \"good\" at this game, but I assure you, it's rewarding and so spectacular to see how huge this world is (And this one is scaled down, too!). However, new tutorials should be very helpful for the beginner.  not too much music (it's still good, just gets repetitive sometimes) (*ahem* devs please add more music)  Getting to further out planets can take a long time, because it is a little more difficult and takes more resourcefulness... (several hours if your like me and really take your time, especially if you send a 3 manned mission to Eeloo... [you'll get faster the more experience you get though])  Overall, this is a wonderful simulator offering a lot of real science with fun, providing lots of hours of engaging gameplay. I am so happy the developers have successfully brought this amazing game out of beta. I have purchased this game so long ago, and the updates have vastly improved the game and have solved many of the problems I have dealt with. Thank you for reading this book of a review, and I hope this really helps. Feel free to leave a comment if you have any questions, I have over 400 hours logged and played the demo for several hours. I will try to get to them as soon as possible. Happy Kerballing!!! ","hours":697.8}
{"funny_percent":0.036585365853658534,"helpful_percent":0.8075795822929678,"review":"With just a little over 125 days of playing time in this game I have to say this is one of the greatest games I have ever played. The first time you land on the moon is probably one of the greatest feelings of videogame accomplishment you can have. You just have that sense of wonder as you explore the desolate mun landscape or the amber hills of duna.   Better mod integration is the only thing this game is really missing.","hours":3142.3}
{"funny_percent":0.40881057268722465,"helpful_percent":0.9855748770619708,"review":"My 8 year old son broke away from Minecraft today. He sat on my lap while we made a rocket. He asked questions about rockets. We made it into space and he asked, \"Are we in space?\" We came down and the friction caused our heat shield to glow. His eyes were wide open as we slowed down. We pressed the space bar to deploy our parachutes but were going too fast and our chutes failed. We crashed and he asked if the kerbal was OK. I said yes as I hit ESC and went back to the VAB and changed a few things. A few minutes later, we landed our capsule safely and he had the biggest smile on his face. I haven't heard a word about Minecraft since! Thank you for making this wonderful game!!!","hours":33}
{"funny_percent":0.12222887956860395,"helpful_percent":0.7565285725873306,"review":"\"See that little grey circle in the night sky, impossibly far away? You can go there.\"  >Spend the next few hours building and testing rockets, trying to get one into orbit. Laugh at all the explosions, and the ever-increasing body count. Realize you have no idea how orbital mechanics work.  >Research how actual rockets achieve an orbit, maybe watch a Youtube video. Maybe take a step back and spend a few hundred hours just exploring your home planet with a plane or rover.  >Get into orbit. Realize you have no idea how to get to the moon. Research a whole different type of orbital mechanics.  >Get to the moon. Realize parachutes don't work.  >Land on the moon, more-or-less in one piece. Realize there's another moon, a bunch of other planets, asteroids that you can capture and bring into orbit, resources that you can harvest into rocket-fuel on the surface of other planets, AND an amazing modding scene that can infinitely more gameplay.  999/10 - Would plunge helpless green astronauts into the sun again.","hours":694}
{"funny_percent":0.03977272727272727,"helpful_percent":0.8361842904045265,"review":"I have over 2k hours logged in steam for KSP, and probably another 2k outside of steam. It's my all-time most-played game.  The thing you have to know about KSP is that you learn by failing. This is true of most games, really, but it's especially and most spectacularly true with KSP. You try something, explode, try something else.  If you can just enjoy the explosions and learn your lessons and try again, this is absolutely the game for you. If failing a few dozen times (even in amusing ways) before succeeding is something that would frustrate you, I guess pick another game.  You don't have to be a rocket scientist to play, but you do have to aspire to rocket science. The simulation isn't perfect, but it's close enough to require that you develop some understanding of orbital mechanics to play. You don't need to understand all that stuff to start with; but you need to be willing to learn as you progress.  Heavy math is not required; there are mods that add displays for all the most commonly used data so you don't have to pull out a calculator. I recommend Kerbal Engineer Redux; other people use MechJeb, and some people spurn the mods and actually do use calculators. But that's a preference issue.  I've purchased KSP both on steam and on GoG, and purchased gift copies for six or seven people across both platforms too. If you consider it on a hours-of-fun-per-monetary-unit basis, it's the most cost effective purchase you will ever make.","hours":2363.3}
{"funny_percent":1.588174273858921,"helpful_percent":0.9677744965895207,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW 1st hour playing: WHAT DO I DO WHY IS IT BLOWING UP 400th hour playing: If my calculations serve me right with this T/W ratio It will take me 1 minute 43 seconds to burn at my periapsis to reach duna insertion at which point I will get into an eliptical equatoral orbit and perform an aerobrake at 16km to get into a steady circular orbit and then I will descend with one of my 4 spaceplanes I took to go to the north pole at which I will set up base at my already existing rover while getting TAC resources to monitor life support and make sure my colony of 212 kerbals can live.  11/10   Edit because for some reason this gained popularity, proper review:  Pros: Endless fun, so much to do. Bored of building rockets? Build a space plane! Fed up of the mun? Go to Duna! Don't want to leave the atmosphere? Build whatever you want! The list goes on!  Fantastic modding community and fantastic mods. So much more expansion on an already amazing game.  Fantastic community in general, some of the nicest people I've met have came from this game. They are such a helpful bunch and I'm glad I'm with them! They'll most likely love to help you. There's also a bunch of fantastic YouTubers such as Scott Manley and others... (too many to name) :)  YOU CAN LEARN STUFF FROM THIS AND GAIN NEW INTERESTS! Before I played this I had no interest in space or space exploration whatsoever but now I actively follow space news and am quite knowledgable on the subject. I have also learnt a fantastic deal of orbital mechanics just from playing and learning the game.  Cons:  The engine and optimisation. This game uses Unity and it only uses 1 CPU core. This can be a major problem if running a multicore with low clock speed. The 32bit version of the game is a whole lot more stable but limits your RAM meaning that if you have a ton of mods you can run into a lot of crashes but thankfully there are mods out there such as ATM (Active Texture Management) and texture replacer to limit the amount of RAM the game uses. 64bit as of now is still pretty unstable with mods.  The learning curve and tutorials. The learning curve on this game is huge, I'm not complaining much about this one as rocket science isn't exactly easy is it? You can learn from trial and error and it's how I learnt alot but some things you just have to read up about or watch a tutorial on youtube. There isn't really much of a tutorial in game either.  Conclusion: Buy it. It's really fantastic.","hours":961.4}
{"funny_percent":0.3,"helpful_percent":0.8228158393643202,"review":"I played this game with my son, now he wants to be an austronaunt. 10/10  Seriously, once upon a time if my son would have asked me \"Dad, how did people land on the moon\" I wouldn't know what to tell him. But today, when my son asked me that question (awww yis!), I simply said -- \"I'll show you how\", and we fired up the game. I was able, with the help of KSP, to show my son the beauty of trial and error, the difficulty of space travel and just how vast and empty space is, and how small we are. I let him built it himself, parachutes on a moon lander, backwards engines and everything. I remember his look of disbeleif and surprise as our first rocket exploded, the look of awe as we made orbit, his wide eyed gaze as we made our trajectory to the moon and he could actually see just how small earth is and how far we are from the moon. I remember his enthusiasm as we were about to touch down on the moon and we deployed his parachutes. Which didn't work. We crashed. Hard. After the inital shock was over, my son asked in surprise: \"Dad why don't parachutes work on the moon?\".  Oh man, thank you KSP. Thank you for making science fun!","hours":337.5}
{"funny_percent":1.8861646234676006,"helpful_percent":0.8985791371072154,"review":"-Launched first rocket, didn't get into space  -Decided that was boring, so strapped on three \"Hammer\" boosters for the next launch  -Accidentally put Jeb in orbit around the sun  -Made it my mission to get Jeb back, whatever the cost  -Directed all efforts and resources towards getting Jeb back  -After countless rocket launches and experiments, decided I had advanced far enough in tech to rescue Jeb  -When Jeb's orbit was closest to Earth, launched advanced drone ship, named \"Jeb II\" (Jeb I didn't make it out of the atmosphere)  -Jeb Ii somehow manages to get close to Jeb's rocket  -Jeb goes on daring EVA, manages to get inside Jeb II, assumes controls, shuts down engines  -After nearly a year, Jeb's orbit puts him close to Kerbal again  -Jeb ignites the Jeb II's thrusters, on course for Kerbal  -Jeb II burns up on reentry, killing Jeb.    -RIP Jeb.   ","hours":75.1}
{"funny_percent":0.07352941176470588,"helpful_percent":0.7462730906723554,"review":"There are no other games really like this. You will, in a terribly entertaining way, learn some fundamental of orbital mechanics, rocket science, aerodynamics, astrophysics and even a bit of mechanical engineering and straight physics.   There is nobody to shoot, no zombies, no monsters, no combat. No grand conquests and raising flags over captured enemy bases. Yet you have never and will never play a game that will challenge, entertain and reward you like KSP will. The learning curve is stiff but not terrible. You play it at your own pace because, well, there is no other pace you can play it at. Games like Dark Souls are 'hard' because you've got to have the right mix of luck and muscle memory and you have to throw yourself at it again again. KSP can be hard because calculating the right setup for the right injection burn to put you in a viable position to get past Ike into a stable orbit around Duna with enough fuel to get you home is a staggering undertaking, a lot of planning and forethough.   This is one of those games that changes gaming. You will kick yourself, repeatedly, when you look back and realize you didn't have a chance to play KSP.   It is a complex, indepth, engaging, well balanced and changing but simplified to make it fun to play simulator for building and deploying rockets and ships to go into space, visit and explore other worlds and travel a solar system.   The developer is a big part of this success. One of the first trail blazers on 'early access' they have been amazing for involving the community. Several of the top modders for KSP (they love and support modding in KSP - not to fix bugs but add content) were engaged and used in building content for the 1.0 release even. They are still engaged in improving and adding content to KSP.   I've got close to 800 hours in at this point and still haven't really played swaths of the game, there are dozens of mods I want to try but haven't had the chance. This is the kind of game that's fun and engaging for years and years. Sometimes you need to step outside the regular run of the mill and see why a game like this has tens of thousands of reviews that are almost universally positive.","hours":879.2}
{"funny_percent":0.008620689655172414,"helpful_percent":0.7165392317210151,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Imagine the most intricate, accurate to life space vehicle simulator you can. Dozens of toggle switches, displays ranging from the strange and esoteric to the vague and incomprehensible, buttons flashing angrily at you and daring you to press them. The screen shakes and aside from the roar of liftoff, the only thing you can hear is your own labored breathing and the pulse in your ears. Do you have this picture in your head? Good.  Because KSP is nothing like that. Take parts, attach parts, launch parts, land parts, detonate parts, survive falling parts. KSP is learning through failure. Unless you go on Youtube and look up the Scott Manley videos, you are going to fail. You gonna fail bad. But it's okay. Failure is only data by another name. Bit by bit, you'll learn how to do things right. You'll realize that putting the engines under the tanks is probably a good idea. Putting the crew capsule in a place not likely to be burned or detonated is also probably a good idea. Parachutes seem like a logical choice, but what the heck, right? Maybe you just need a five hundred meter long crumple zone. Nobody's gonna stop you. That's the great thing, isn't it? You can put anything at all you want on the launchpad, and nobody knows well enough to try to stop you. The Kerbish OSHA rep is permanently locked into the bathroom. He's not gettin' out of there. We welded the window shut, locked the door, and put model airplane glue in the keyhole. Cell phone reception in there is sketchy. You're safe. So go nuts.  There's places you can go. Land at the poles, the sea, the mountains, or all three at once with a creatively timed spray of shrapnel. There's other worlds. A big burning thing with no surface that'll tan you for free if you check it out. It'll tan you to the bone. So that's a bonus. There's other worlds. Red world. Purple world. Green world with little worlds around it. Hidden stuff everywhere. All of these places are fit to seed with refuse. Landers, rovers, living quarters, stations, battleships, pasteboard furniture, lawnmowers, spaceplanes, robots, scooters, springboards, et cetera. KSP is a litterer's dream. There's so many places you can leave stuff you have no hope of bringing home. And it's worth doing it just to see that stuff sitting there.  But I've got to warn you. You've reached TL;DR level four, so here's a bonus. This game has very unexpected side effects. You will learn things. Hoffman transfer. Periapsis. Apoapsis. How orbit actually works. Why orbit is halfway to anywhere. Launch windows. Free transfer windows. Free returns. If you make the horrifying inadvertent mistake of buying this game for yourself or your child, somebody's gonna learn things. It's unavoidable. Real things, even. Newton's spectre haunts this game. You will find no escape, and he fears no earthly garlic.  Lemmie wrap this up for the TL;DR folks who check the bottom summary. Just get KSP already. You aren't really learning anything from my review you probably didn't know already. Let's be honest with each other, here. Ok? You don't want to learn whether or not this game is worth buying. You're looking for someone to make the excuse for you. You're already gonna get it, you just want someone to possibly take the fall for you if you catch heat for doing it. And to you, good sirs and madams, I say; Yes. Yes, I'll take the blame. \"That fat idiot Whackjob from KSP told me to get the game, or he said he'd cut me.\" They'll believe you. You're good. So do it. Hit that buy button.  Thank me later.  ~Whackjob of KSP[i.imgur.com]","hours":765.1}
{"funny_percent":0.3710769230769231,"helpful_percent":0.7289069417387264,"review":"This game should be standard issue in school physic classes. Taught me more about orbital mechanics than anything else.","hours":86.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8711697634484743,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This is an incredible game, I've almost got 300 hours into it and I'm still looking forward to firing it up nearly every day. There's a lot of reasons to buy this game:  * if you love space, this game will get you there, first hand, and let you have your hand at designing space crafts (and planes), flying them, and of course, crashing them in big glorious explosions  * you will learn a lot about space, physics, orbital mechanics, aerodynamics, etc... this really happens, I have two friends that are rocket scientists (one does ion drive research, the other designs micro-satellites, I work at a large university), and after playing this game for a few months, I could easily talk to them about their work, where they drop terms like ISP, TWR, retrograde, normals, etc, terms that I now fully understand  * the game is very approachable, you can play in \"career mode\" which walks you though the beginning steps of putting a rocket into space, to orbiting, to visiting the Mun and beyond. If you need more help, the YouTube scene is quite impressive, with people like Scott Manley producing really professional (and charming) video tutorial series. I am not a lover of simulation-type games, I play mostly FPS's and RPG's, but I found this game quite easy to pick and up get into.  * while approachable, this game is certainly not easy, for example, landing and returning from Eve (the Venus-like planet in the Kerbin system) is one of the hardest tasks in the game, and while most of the game is fairly non-stressful in its nature, landing spaceships is a tense experience, especially when Jeb's life is on the line! For those that find it difficult to master some of the more difficult tasks, there are impressive control mods like MechJeb2 where you essentially point at a spot on a planet and press the \"Land There\" button, MechJeb does the rest.  * the game has a unique charm to it, in the game you are progressing through the space race for the people of the Kerbin panet, you'll get to know and love the kerbalnauts that will fly your craft, especially Jebediah Kerman, pilot extraordinaire and fearless hero to the Kerbin people  * the community for this game, is active, organized, and quite friendly, mostly found on Reddit and the Squad forums, you can get any question answered, or read mission reports from someone's latest mission, or get news on upcoming updates for the game. The only time you see people getting belligerent on these forums is when some is misbehaving toward others Squad is actively developing this game, each release (every new months) bringing a lot of new features and parts to build with, and just this week the update to KSP brings many new rocket parts built in collaboration with NASA plus a mission to save Kerbin from killer asteroids!  * the mod scene for this game is extremely impressive, from new real-life inspired rocket parts (so you can build your own Saturn V), to impressive new systems that enable for example planetary mining (so you can get more fuel on route to your target), to just plain fun mods like the nuclear pulse rocket, which explodes varied-sized nuclear bombs behind a large plate to produce thrust (scientists actually design this beast in the 50's)  * the endgame is rich and deep: once you've completed career mode, many KSP players switch to the realism mods, which give you the real solar system, truly deadly reentries, realistic communication constraints (that require building satellite networks), more realistic aerodynamics modeling (e.g., Ferram's amazing FAR mod), real life-support constraints, etc. that make for a significantly more challenging and rewarding experience; if that doesn't trip your trigger, the forums have organized challenges with leaderboards, to see who can, for example, get to the Mun with the least number of parts, or eject the most Kerbals out of the solar system, all great fun with the competitors meticulously documenting their missions  If these things sound interesting to you, get this game! It was the best $25 bucks I ever spent! ","hours":1181.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8561919008072827,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This certainly was the best 20 Euros ever spent on a game. I love this game, its learning curve and its modability.  Here a few pointers to help you decide:  1. If you love astronomy and space exploration, this game is for you! You can do everything you have read and fantasized about. Build any rocket, no matter how stupid the concept may look at first and then try it out in the cold hard reality of space.  2. The game has a very steep learning curve and will constantly challenge you. You will learn a lot about orbital mechanics, why staging is absolutely necessary and how to conserve fuel. If you don't, you probably won't make it into orbit, much less to the Mun or even other planets. Even after more than 600 hours of playing Kerbal Space Program, I'm learning stuff the hard way by losing vehicles and Kerbals.  3. The game developers actively encourage modding and the modding community is breathtakingly awesome. The modability of this game is the hidden strength of this game. Without it, I wouldn't have played it half the time I actually did and wouldn't have enjoyed it as much at the same time.  The first time you play through the career mode (meaning you unlock all the technologies) you should play it without any mods, just to learn the basics, look how the game behaves, etc., but after that you should really check out the Kerbal Space Program forums mod section (http://forum.kerbalspaceprogram.com/forums/35-Add-on-Releases-and-Projects-Showcase ), KerbalStuff (http://beta.kerbalstuff.com/ ) and/or the Curse Mod Page (http://www.curse.com/ksp-mods/kerbal ). There's mods for so many aspects of the game... Want to play in more realistic solar system where it's harder to even get into orbit? Check. Want to have more realistic (= punishing) aerodynamics? Check. Want to have rocket parts for even larger rockets? Check. Want to have some autopilot capabilities to assist you with repetitive tasks? Check. Want to mine for fuel and ores on distant celestial bodies? Check. Want to have a warp drive? Also check.  There's so many more which you should probably explore for yourself. The replayability of this game is great, thanks to all those mods. The community forums are also really great and helpful. If you play this game, please make sure you don't forget to mod it at some point, really!  You should not play this game,  - if you don't like space sims to be too realistic. Again: You will have to learn at least basic orbital mechanics which means the strongest force around is not your ship's drive, but gravity. And a heartless ♥♥♥♥♥ she is indeed... - if you don't enjoy learning stuff the hard way by explosions, disintegrations and death. There is no perfect rocket. At some point stuff will blow up and you will have to start a whole mission again. - if you don't like games that are still in development. There will be new versions released every now and then, so things change from time to time. For example, when the game was upgraded from 0.22 to 0.23, the whole science system got a rework and a lot of my rockets that were built specifically for science grinding became useless. The update was great though, since it got rid of grinding altogether.  I hope you enjoy this game as much as I still do. :)","hours":687.1}
{"funny_percent":0.002277904328018223,"helpful_percent":0.8011371829766467,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This is the ultimate in sandbox geekery. If you have a passing interest in astronomy, a love for freeform games, or just enjoy sending computer-generated life forms to their death repeatedly, this is the game for you.  Definitely get this. Convince your friends to get this. Hell, convince your grandparents to get this.","hours":213.2}
{"funny_percent":0.15888583758336602,"helpful_percent":0.9775120453778625,"review":"As a Physics student I never quite understood entirely Classical Mechanics till I met Jebediah Kerman. He taght me everything, the real thing, he became de facto my true master and I couldn't be more grateful for what he did for me. We became best buddies, he gave me courage to continue with my studies. I can't recall how many long nights have we spent exploring other worlds completely drunk and having existencial talks. Though, I never quite understood a damn word of what he said.   I love this guy to death. I would die if something ever happened to him...   RIP Jebediah (for the 42th time)","hours":14.1}
{"funny_percent":0.0026041666666666665,"helpful_percent":0.7207901422443347,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I was able to learn and actually understand far more about orbital mechanics by playing this game obsessively for 2 weeks than doing an astrophysics course for a year at university.  This was originally a neat little rocket building and exploding simulator that attracted a couple of hours' worth amusement before being returned to the \"may play again later\" shelf. After many updates, it has grown into an immensely satisfying personal sandbox space programme simulator.  The first time I landed a Kerbal safely on the Mun was a historic moment, and very emotional... until moments later when I wondered how Jebediah would possibly get back. Swiftly, a rescue mission was devised. Hours were spent meticulously over-engineering an overly capable craft, until I realised I felt quite hungry. I couldn't decide what to eat, when I noticed the name of the planet Mars equivalent. Seeing it as almost divine inspiration, I went out and got a Duna kebab. Very satisfied with the food the game chose for me, I spent the next few hours trying to fly the monstrosity that could only barely be called a \"return vehicle\" without: 1) exploding on launch. 2) tipping over and exploding whilst landing. After many reverts and quickloads, it was finally successful. A celebratory viewing of Apollo 13 ensued, followed with feverish design work on the next, more ambitious project. And then it was 6am.  The game is far too addictive.  I now wish I had studied aero engineering instead.  There is a full solar system to obtain science on explore, with lots of ways to do it. Contraptions which can only be described as \"adorably ridiculous\" yet surprisingly effective may be constructed to your heart's content. As with many other sandbox games, you provide your own amusement - set yourself ridiculous tasks and restrictions, be efficient or over-engineer the♥♥♥♥♥♥out of everything such that the Littoral Combat Ship looks like a very sound and practical design.  With or without mods (of which there are many), you can build almost anything from planes and land vehicles to giant flying space horses and bananas.  Official multiplayer support in the future was announced a while ago, and there is currently a multiplayer mod that allows you to build space stations or conduct joint missions with friends and partner agencies.  It is still currently in development, with more and more features being added with each major update. Even in its current state, I would be more than happy to pay double its current full price based on how much enjoyment I have gotten out of it.  TL;DR: Spectacular failures, decided what I should have to eat one day and now I regret my key life decisions. Would buy again.","hours":522.3}
{"funny_percent":0.0330188679245283,"helpful_percent":0.9600312494946078,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW 3... 2... 1... Aw shi-  If your parents have ruined your life by pumping your head full of overt positive reinforcement of all the great things you will accomplish in life, and have a shrine of your Academic Team, Little League and Girl Scout trophies and awards, and you live in the shadow of their crafted image of potential you know you will never fulfill, then KSP is for you.   You will spend hours engineering great and mighty rockets, planning to launch humble little Kerbals (in game human analogs, because kerploding simulated HUMANS isn't politically correct in gaming unless it's portrayed in war, murder mysteries, alien invasions, war, zombie horror, war, armed rebellion stories, humorous ciminal empire sandboxes, war, over the top armed racing games, war, Valve circlejerk physics engine display pieces, war, or the kitchen sink) into space...  Wait. What was I saying? Oh, right, you slap random aeronautic components with names longer than a West Coast Rapper's discography (what did you think I was going to say?) and plot a course for the very stars themselves! And then promptly cry tears of relief that your parent's were always wrong about you, and you actually CAN'T do anything right, all along - when you realize you forgot to put adequate battery banks on board, so now your little astronauts are floating through the hostile void forevermore, committed to the lonely depths of space, never to set foot on green Kerbin again. THIS. IS. YOUR. FAULT.  Just kidding.   They kerploded on the launch pad like your freshman fall semester career plans when you realized \"Intro to College Biology\" was the EASIEST class your degree required. But it doesn't matter, because trial and error in this game is so much fun, you'll completely forget about your dead end job and/or unemployment!  But getting to the meat and potatoes of the game, you have about 15-20 celestial bodies to explore, and all the components you need to get there, not to mention very easy to add mods to fill in any gaps in equipment. Each body, moons, planets, even the local star can be explored and your engineering options are endless.   One can make: crappy unmaned probes, crappy unmanned rovers, crappy space stations, crappy single stage to orbit launch vehicles, crappy shuttles, crappy rockets, crappy planetary bases, crappy space boats, for the odd moon with liquid surfaces. The possibilities are as countless as the stars, in that, the number could probably be calculated, but if you spent time doing it, no woman will ever touch your pe-   Moving on. KSP is hours of fun, offering both structured career mode, and stupid anarchist sandbox mode for rebellious teens that hate rules. The game is still in development as of this review, and thus new content is constantly being added, not that there is any lack of stuff to do - KSP is massively replayable and tremendously enjoyable.  Final score: 293/299 superfluous boosters.  Protip: This game currently constitutes the entirety of the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea's space program, despite the state's lack of hardware capabe of running it, even with its undemanding specs.","hours":764.2}
{"funny_percent":0.006293706293706294,"helpful_percent":0.8985877473046944,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW A great game if you know what you're doing. If you don't know what you're doing, it becomes mindless fun involving explosions and terrified astronauts.","hours":99.9}
{"funny_percent":1.911571025399812,"helpful_percent":0.9856158931981298,"review":"I've done more engineering in 3 months playing KSP than in 20 years of career as an engineer.","hours":455.1}
{"funny_percent":0.003115264797507788,"helpful_percent":0.763587417164485,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Kerbal Space Program is essentially NASA by trial and error. All the fun of building things and launching them into space, without the hassle of acquiring funding or the responsibility of having to return people to Earth safely.  The Kerbals are a race of little green humanoids who love space. More than anything else, they want to go to there. You can get them there by designing rockets and space planes of near-unlimited complexity (read: convolutedness), and testing them out. Some of your designs will succeed, and some will experience a \"rapid unplanned vehicle disassembly.\" But that's half the fun.  Once you get the hang of getting things off the ground, you can really start to see how incredibly in-depth this game is. There is an entire solar system modeled here, with 7 planets and a bunch of moons orbiting them, giving you tons to do -- enough for hundreds of hours of play. As of this writing, I'm over 100 hours spent in-game, and the furthest I've gotten from Kerbin (the Earth-analog starting planet) is Eve, one of the nearest planets (and even then, I was forced to watch helplessly as the craft crashed into the surface, having spent all of its fuel on the voyage there).   The game's physics are -- while scaled down for difficulty's sake -- actually fairly realistic. I never realized how little I knew about the physics involved in orbits until I started figuring out how to save fuel during launch by focusing more on horizontal velocity. Before long, I was looking up how to do gravity assists to get to other planets, and looking up actual rocket science formulas, trying to understand the principles behind them in order to improve my designs.  The game is still in Alpha, and as such it's a little rough around the edges (the most obvious to me is that the surface of Kerbin is devoid of any kind of structures besides the space center), but new updates are coming out with decent regularity. Most recently added is the career mode, which starts you out only with a handful of parts, requiring you to perform experiments and generate reports around the solar system to gain \"science\" -- a currency you can use to unlock new part selections. The part limitations give a new kind of challenge, and obtaining science gives the game a more objective focus, which I found very refreshing -- especially just as sandbox mode was starting to lose some of its draw.  TL:DR; If designing and flying rockets, space planes and/or whatever ridiculous contraption you can think of sounds fun, it's a safe bet that you'll enjoy this game. Despite still being in alpha, it's already more than worth what I paid.","hours":189.5}
{"funny_percent":0.0024813895781637717,"helpful_percent":0.7343430440330043,"review":"I score this Simulation game 12/10, just hit the buy button! It exceeds all expectations. The game isn't finished yet, but I don't care. They can't fail anything anymore. Just buy it. Or wait for a sale and then buy it. Whenever you buy it, you won't feel ripped off! I guarantee you that!   Kerbal Space Program is pure MAGIC! On the facade it comes across as something with the depth of Angry Birds and the looks of a crappy looking 3d rollercoaster tycoon and the unsuspecting gamer is easily fooled. However, there is a reason this game has a fanbase of millions! There's a reason I'm scoring this game 12 out of 10. I find this game to be the most addictive thing in my library. I even try NOT to play it, but when I do it keeps me awake at night and busy while doing daily chores...  KSP, like the name might have hinted, is a Space Program Simulator Game. There is the career mode, involving missions and research, and there is the sandbox mode that allows you to run free with it. The game is in early access and the career needs work (I find the missions redundant and confusing, but it's already fun), and this review is more about the sandbox mode.  You run the show, so you set out your own missions, like fly to the moon or another planet. Then you have to build your lander, rover, satelite or whatever, the means of manouvering in space and a rocket to get it in space! Then you have to find out not just how to get something off the ground and into space, you also need to learn to make an orbit. Then you learn how to manipulate orbits in order to get around. There are no concessions! By the time you've figured out how to get where you want to go, you will have learned the basics of actual spaceflight! You don't need a science degree to do this and to understand this, the game is brilliant this way. You can get there by trial and error and in a fun way too.  I recommend this game to all people that like simulation games, tycoon games, Lego (the plastic bricks), science fiction in general, science in general, rockets and blowing stuff up, real space exploration or even have slight positive stance on looking at the sky at night willing to learn.  As you set out your own missions, you send your Kerbal individuals (they all have names) on grand adventures. Their homeworld has a cicumference of about 12000km and it comes with 2 moons. The bigger one looks like our own moon and it can even cast a solar eclipse (really a fun and beautifull feature). In the Kerbol (name of the star) system you will also find the planets Moho, Eve with it's moon Gilly, Kerbin with Mun and Minmus, Duna with Ike, then a gas-giant called Jool with no less then 5 moons plus finally the dwarfplanet Eelo. The distances are measured in millions of kilometers when traveling in space. It may be a scaled down planetary system, but that doesn't mean it's small. I have never before adventured through such an immense ingame world. Each planet and moon comes with it's own biomes and anomalies to discover and explore and you'll busy for hundreds of hours before you've done it all. Everyone plays in this same systen so everyone can share their adventures with eachother, you know what the other player is talking about.  When I started playing, I had little expectations. It looked like a mod, but then I reached space. It was like the opening of the movie 2001: a Space Oddisey. The \"space whales\" ingame music started playing and my contraption was floating in a serene fashion high above kerbin, ever going higher and higher, kerbin getting smaller and smaller, I passed the Mun... lost kerbin, then found the \"eva\" button.. I found out stands for \"Extra Vehicular Activity\", or \"Go play outside\".. so I lost my Kerbal. Hours of my life passed by while staring at this phenomenon called KSP, while drooling over my keyboard.  This game is not done yet. I'm not sure when they aim for a release candidate, but they can't fail this anymore. Nasa has made an addon for it, so now asteroids are also part of the game and can be landed on or grabbed. Nasa also added their own rocket parts based on the new Space-X rocket, how awesome is that! And the developer has even announced multiplayer!!! I don't know how this will work and what we could do in an online game, and It's already more fun if a friend plays this game too, but it's anticipated by me nonetheless.   The educational value of this game is through the roof! I thought I understood the principle of orbits, but boy did I learn a lot. I understood the concept of flying faster horizontally then you fell vertically, but putting it to practice requires more then just going. So, I watched Nasa do it. They pivot the rocket as soon as it has picked up enough speed, so ok... I built a rocket with steering parts and pivotted it correctly after a few try-outs and finally worked out an eliptical orbit to play with. At this point the concept that Isaac Newton put down of \"every action has a 'pose and equal reaction\" gets a whole new meaning in orbit (you'll see :KSmiley:).   Every run you make in Kerbal, you get more advanced. Your rockets become more stable, because you know how to make them, you get to other planets faster, because you know how to get there. My rockets grew in size from around 60 parts for the rocket with my first moonlander, of which I built a new version every night, to about 1300 in my rocket plus massive oversized truck I landed on Duna, which took me 2 weeks to build! It went from slapping together a simple contraption to a mind-boggling engineering puzzle that even my pc (or the game's engine) found hard to process when launched.  There comes a point where you get stuck on something, like how to dock in space. There are several things to do, but I warn you: this can make or break your experience. Try as hard as you can if you're stuck, play with a friend (you know, together on one pc thinking and building) and if all else fails, then try youtube or a guide. Letting guides take you by the hand can ruin your experience. But when you've reached this point it just means a whole new world of Kerbal opens before your eyes. I think every KSP player has posted screenshots, videos, guides both online and private to friends. The ammount of material you can dig up is staggering.  Also, don't install mods as you just start playing, exept for scan-sat perhaps (but don't, the other mods will lure you). Mods potentially ruins the experience as they can either make it to hard or too easy. I've reached the point where making an orbit has become a boring thing to do and I had seen all the parts ingame. I've reached the point of not getting my ships docked. This was the point where I looked on youtube, read guides and reviews for mods and then installed mods, mods like MechJeb (in flight telemetry and autopilot options, use at your own risk), advanced cockpits (cockpit screens, buttons to press, external cameras, awesome!), more parts, graphical addons, scan-sat (scans planets, awesome!), etc. But with all games in early access, mods can be broken when the game is patched. But when you've reached that point, KSP can be enhanced in such ways it brings about limitless posibilities, as realistic as you want it to be.  This game is 100% quality, dedicated hard work and deserves all credit it can get. When it's done, it just means it has reached a point where the developers can call it a complete game. With more standard parts, more physics, more career, more tycoon and basicly more game then it is now. From that moment this game will only expand as if it were the universe itself thanks to mods and I don't think this game will die out soon. Just buy the game, you'll have fun for years to come I promiss!!!  Now years after release, I stand by my review. This game will stand it's ground.  If it's not on sale, check out Steamhookups.com if there's a good deal in it for you!","hours":340.4}
{"funny_percent":0.7801418439716312,"helpful_percent":0.9697769036559911,"review":"Nothing will prepare you for the moment you first touch down on the Mun with your Kerbals - alive. The sense of accomplishment is magnificent. Its probably comparable to the crushing defeat you feel as you realize you forgot to make sure you had enough fuel to get back home. But! You've done it! You managed to get your Kerbals to the Mun, land them safely, lift off and get into an aerobrake orbit around Kerbin! Aaaand, you forgot to put parachutes on your command pod :|","hours":297.7}
{"funny_percent":0.34517766497461927,"helpful_percent":0.9472966270366051,"review":"When you play Kerbal Space Program, you find yourself becoming one of two types of individuals. Either you throw everything together and make things up as you go, or you spend equally as much time planning for a mission as actually flying it. Either way, mission success (whatever you define that to be) is always either painstakingly earned or astronomically lucky (pun intended). It's very hard to compare to the feeling of seeing a safe splashdown after one of your Kerbals (the characters that man spacecraft) has walked on the surface of another celestial body. It's also hard to compare to the humbling feeling you get when you've made it halfway across the Kerbol system after significant planning and execution time only to realize that you left your landing legs at home.  This game will frustrate and exhilarate you. Well worth the purchase.","hours":135.4}
{"funny_percent":1.174298375184638,"helpful_percent":0.8893596165120787,"review":"Pros  +Can run on most potatos +Is not one of those boring simulators +Graphical and Part mods are amazing +No degree in astrophysics is needed +You can make Rovers, Planes, Rockets, Shuttles, (Boats?), ect. +Total freedom to walk around and explore the solar system +Things to do on other planets (Collect science, Make bases, Drill for ore) +3 different modes- Sandbox, Career, or Science +Fantastic Community  Cons  -No multiplayer yet (it's coming) -No stock/vanilla clouds or dynamics on any planets yet (there are plenty of mods though) -Fully mastering the game takes a good deal of time -Not entertaining for 10-year-old COD players -The addiction may cause sudden loss of girlfriends or career  Overall Score: 11/10, would fail docking sequence on Endurance again. ","hours":911.4}
{"funny_percent":0.319672131147541,"helpful_percent":0.7806391226880532,"review":"Truly Epic. One of those games I keep going back to (300+ hours as I write this).  Being a simulation, the number of situations you can find yourself in is nearly endless.  My most recent Kerbtastrophe occurred when my unmanned mapping and science probe (JoolStar1) was about to arrive at Jool after nearly 4 years in flight. Actually, it happened quite a while before that, I just wasn't aware of it.  I switched to the probe, ready to fine-tune my approach so I could cut through the atmosphere, bleeding off speed without wasting fuel.  Something was wrong. The probe didn't respond to inputs. That's when I realised I hadn't deployed the solar panels before leaving Kerbin orbit!   Cursing, I tried to deploy them. Nothing. I mashed the button repeatedly. Still nothing. I checked the batteries... Empty!  Since I didn't have a kerbal on board to do an EVA, there was nothing I could do except watch helplessly as JoolStar1 sailed straight past its destination, a failure destined to orbit the sun forever.  This game is all about failing repeatedly (and hilariously) until a Darwinian process of attrition results in an understanding of how to build, fly and land rockets.  I can't recommend it highly enough","hours":763.1}
{"funny_percent":0.44081632653061226,"helpful_percent":0.7362436704523899,"review":"It's been quite a ride. Four long years of development, cool stuff, accidentally education, and the Kraken... and here we are. One point oh (point whatever!) And oh, are things different! But that's all the past! Let's talk about the present.  This is a game in which you go to space repeatedly, success optional.  Most of the entertainment value in this game is either limited or boosted by your imagination. You can just throw some bits together, hit the go button and see what happens! What's that? There are Kerbals in there? I'm sorry, I couldn't hear you over the sound of my massive explosion device. Conversely, you can put things together in a very particular manner and create the perfect interplanetary shuttle. It's all up to you. Your sandbox is the solar system. Go play. Due to the nature of things and such, this game would be truly incredible in a classroom environment, yet it's just as fun alone at home.  Now, for the less sandbox-oriented among us (or just the people like me who enjoy progression,) there's a career mode! This time, you start out with the exclusive ability to make short range, manned, ballistic missiles! FOR SCIENCE! Seriously, you generate Science! from everything, and you use it to unlock more things to build better missiles to make more Science! Be careful though. Don't want to blow up too many bits, because you have funding to worry about now. You should also take care of your Kerbals to keep your reputation acceptable.  Also the camera shakes, there's complicated aerodynamics, there's thermodynamics, there's moresodynamics, there's orbital mechanics, there's resource mining (which you can MAKE FUEL with,) there's management, there's pretty explosions, there's good sound effects that are also deafening, there's accidentally education, and so much more for only some money!  However, the tutorial is absolutely useless and frustrating. Ignore it, fumble around for a while, and utilize the internet to learn what you must know when you decide that trial and error is so last era.  There's not really much else to talk about... All the other details are either not noteworthy, neutral, or better kept quiet... so...  Go build some intercon- advanced spacecraft.","hours":98.8}
{"funny_percent":0.02247191011235955,"helpful_percent":0.72487900109356,"review":"This is the only space exploration/colonization game anyone needs. The base game starts you in around the 50's with regards to your species space exploration efforts up to now. You are kerbals from kerbin, not humans in the game.   Anyway, you start with a few researched parts for use and a few bucks. You take up missions and complete them to increase money, science points, and reputation. The first missions will be \"launch a vessel\" Then \"Launch a vessel and leave the atmosphere\", etc. thru research you spend science points to gain access to more advanced parts.   You have to build your vessels with whats available to you. They dont always work, in fact, once you advance past the initial parts, which enable to basically build a manned missile with some parachutes, most dont work the way you fully intend them to first go around. But there is a ton of fun in the trial and error stuff.  You upgrade facilities to open up additional or improved options. You hire more kerbals to help with your growig space program.  Before long you will have a commuication satellite link around kerbin, have experiments going on in your orbital space station, and be mining minerals at your base on the Mun.  The real fun starts with the mods, never have i seen so many good ones before this. Everything from automating a part to replacing the stock solar system with a multi-system galaxy.   Im in this one deep with the hours and i just restarted again with a new galaxy to explore. With the mods, you can make it basically a new game.   If i could only pick 3 games that i could play from now on, this would for sure be one of them.","hours":3989.1}
{"funny_percent":3.5617352614015574,"helpful_percent":0.7973700309453515,"review":"Parachutes do not work on the moon. Many Kerbals died to bring us this information.  11/10","hours":70.6}
{"funny_percent":1.232258064516129,"helpful_percent":0.9407936007198454,"review":"I finally reached a stable orbit but I have no idea how to get back.","hours":1146.9}
{"funny_percent":0.05,"helpful_percent":0.9056523925938531,"review":"Kerbal Space Program, at least to me is the king of simulation games. While I play numerous others (such as Farming Simulator) they don’t seem to hit every mark in that field. KSP, while challenging at first is the one that throws everything that happens in reality at the player, and force them to deal with it. While a game like Farming Sim only really requires you to keep an eye on fuel or some crops, KSP requires that you maintain a healthy supply of necessities ranging from fuel and electricity, to a satellite connection back home. But the part of the game that truly shines is the feeling you get when you first land on the Mun. A friend who gave the game a shot said Originally posted by Bacaber: “it was just...pride. So many Kerbals died in previous attempts, and I finally made it.”  While the game is difficult, I can’t stop asking people to try it. To me, it’s the perfect “life isn’t about the destination, but the journey” and I think this game captures that perfectly. ","hours":494.8}
{"funny_percent":0.13043478260869565,"helpful_percent":0.9852342714797989,"review":"Wow, what an amazing journey it has been.  * Fail to understand staging. Deploy chutes on launch.  * Watch Scott Manley videos.  * Struggle to put anything in orbit.  * Watch more Scott Manley videos.  * Struggle to complete easy-mode career.  * Struggle to complete normal-mode career.  * Struggle to complete hard-mode career.  * Struggle to put anything in orbit in RSS career.  * Struggle to complete hard-mode RSS career.  * Repeatedly play through hard-mode RSS career without ground stations for fun.   I have about 2500 hours in total in this game. Like anyone, at first I was struggling to understand the staging concept and UI. Had to watch some Scott Manley videos to get the basics. From there it has been a life-altering journey of enlightenment. There's a mind-boggling number of space/rocket/physics concepts I am now familiar with thanks to this game. I went from understanding almost nothing of orbital maneuvering, to being able to eye-ball all the aspects of a Lunar launch window in RSS, executing it in hard-mode career with minimal delta-v margins and no extra ground stations.  I can't even remember all the intense, memorable moments I've had in this game. They're too many and it's all a blur of awesomeness.","hours":1382.3}
{"funny_percent":0.10144927536231885,"helpful_percent":0.9610926765326073,"review":"This is one of my favourite games. Its simply amazing.  KSP is walking the fine line between a space sciency simulation and a comicly slapstick just for fun and giggles game.  Its harsh and unforgiving in the beginning, expecting you to know about the basic science of rocketry or fail over and over until you get it on your own. (Watch ScottManley tutorials if you want a head start)  I had trouble in the beginning even getting into orbit around the planet (or keeping my rocket upright on the way there) - but now I am planing missions to other planets, landing and returning - sending unmanned rovers to explore - or even bringing asteroids back home.  800 hours in and I feel like I am still just at the beginning.  »Mün or bust« - unknown (prob. Jebediah Kerman or KurtJMac)","hours":918}
{"funny_percent":0.030612244897959183,"helpful_percent":0.8511706830841279,"review":"Ignore Take-Two haters/downvoters. There's nothing wrong with the game itself and is worth every single penny.  But despite cartoonish style, do not expect casual gameplay. It's pure hardcore with a very steep learning curve (and game does not explain anything beyond basic stuff). Prepare to read a lot and watch YT. Game is hard but achieving next steps in your Space Program is satisfying like no other game.","hours":117.9}
{"funny_percent":0.3282442748091603,"helpful_percent":0.8583751135507129,"review":"After my son had a really bad day where nothing seemed to go right, we had a talk about how failing is part of learning.  I said \"Remember how you watched me flying rockets on the computer?\"  He said \"Yeah, they kept going all over the place and smashing into the ground! Have you landed on the moon yet?\"  \"Nope. Crashed into it a couple times. Learning new things every time though.\"  \"Can I play that game too!?\"  -Kerbal Space Program: Lessons for life.","hours":116.3}
{"funny_percent":0.29213483146067415,"helpful_percent":0.710867919039245,"review":"This is my most played game.  It has brought me the most pain.  The most anger.  At times I feel like I'm playing dark souls, in space, with adorable little green men.  This game has done so much for the future of astrophysics, these guys deserve global recognition for the excitement they have generated in new generations for space travel and exploration. ","hours":337.2}
{"funny_percent":0.005813953488372093,"helpful_percent":0.9887952850560966,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW If you love space, if you love engineering and design, building projects, and flight sims, you will lose many, many hours to this game.  And many, many Kerbals.","hours":9.2}
{"funny_percent":0.14772727272727273,"helpful_percent":0.82826107099025,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Oh boy, this game is definitely worth your money. My Kerbal Space Program story originated over 2 years ago when a friend suggested it and I quickly shrugged it off. I started watching videos, downloaded the demo, got hooked and here I am with over 960 hours and still going in this game. I never run out of things to do. Yes there is a huge learning curve but it is totally worth it. Even with the amount of time I have dedicated to this game I still cannot perfectly perform maneuvers, but what would be the fun in that? The modding community is great, as is the community in general. I have never seen a community so dedicated to ehlping others as the Kerbal community is. Now that the game is in beta I feel like we are a step closer to the final product and i would completely recommend buying this game before it's price continues to increase.","hours":1596.4}
{"funny_percent":0.14754098360655737,"helpful_percent":0.9812802740203176,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Think of Kerbal as a Do-It-Yourself-NASA, albeit less successful because you haven't a clue what you're supposed to be doing. It's all fun though, as you'll learn quite quickly and by the end of the week, along with some Scott Manley Youtube schooling, you'll be on the right track.  You'll probably spend 95% of your time exploding, but that slim 5% that you actually manage to get into orbit, dock two craft together to make a space station, or land on another body (such as the Mun), will become some of the most memorable experiences in your video gaming life.  As close to a solid space simulation as you'll ever get. And extremely mod friendly too!","hours":693.2}
{"funny_percent":0.20408163265306123,"helpful_percent":0.9854126258173685,"review":"This game has one of the steepest learning curves of any game i've ever played, but it has also given me the greatest feeling of achievement from any game i've ever played.  When you land on the Mun for the first time, after mashing buttons trying to stabalise your craft and you barely make it due to the lack of fuel, there's no better feeling than knowing you have to do it all again and launch a rescue mission. (or you could just leave Bob there for science).....  I am a big fan of space, physics and science in general and playing this game has been an education for me. Because of KSP I have watched dozens of YouTube videos on astrophysics and aerodynamics I would have probably never watched without this game and learned a ton of interesting things, and i love that.  The game has a fantastic modding community with a huge variety of mods to add realism or give your game a futuristic sci-fi feel. A favourite mod of mine is 'Remote tech', I don't play without it.   This game produces some stunning visuals too as you drift through the vast openness of space, orbiting moons, chasing asteroids, collecting science and designing planes, rockets, trucks, rovers, probes, boats even helecopters and mech walker/transformer type sh** thanks to mods....   If you ever look up at the stars and wonder what it would be like to go there..... Well, this is as close as i'm ever gunna get.","hours":1202.3}
{"funny_percent":0.15357852882703776,"helpful_percent":0.7588001625677422,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW If I had this in 4th grade computer lab instead of Oregon Trail I would be an astronaut right now instead of dying of dysentery.","hours":450.9}
{"funny_percent":0.8074222668004012,"helpful_percent":0.8244412026133617,"review":"Actually helped me get my degree.  10/10","hours":650.5}
{"funny_percent":0.4166666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.801748235616362,"review":"The answer to this review is yes. is it good? is it fun? Will i enjoy it if i know nothing about it? will i enjoy if i know too much about it? will it somehow suck you in for hours? Will you somehow anger the kraken during the time i play this? will you get frustrated? will i then get extremely aroused when my spaceship gets into orbit? YES","hours":223.1}
{"funny_percent":0.06722689075630252,"helpful_percent":0.7801036486150206,"review":"While it's not exactly beginner-friendly, Kerbal Space Program (KSP) is a brilliant game for what it achieves. What other game can boast of accurate portrayal of orbital physics, staging rocket sequences and interplanetary travel? Gravity is a difficult beast to tame!  You're drawn in by the relatively simple ship construction aspect where you put together your ship like building blocks, attaching parts one at a time with options to make certain parts attach symmetrically. Once you're on the launchpad though,♥♥♥♥♥♥gets real. You will fail a lot, with your rocket exploding, or tipping over, or messing up the sequence of stages.  Just leaving the atmosphere and establishing an orbit is a massive challenge, and that is still the early game! Sending probes and landers to other planets and moons, building space stations and exploring the far reaches of the fictional solar system; these are all possible. Beyond that, the Career and Science modes provide new tasks and objectives such as completing contracts or carrying equipment to perform various scientific experiments, and further still the Sandbox mode allows you to set your own goals.  Unless you're a genius or have a huge deal of patience you will need to refer to various tutorials, wikis, guides and discussions online. If physics scares you off you will probably find it hard to enjoy the game beyond its initial simple tasks. You'll need to be willing to learn new things to get the most out of this game.  KSP will likely give you a new appreciation of the space program of the 20th Century and what was achieved with the technology available at the time. Any person who's dreamed of working at NASA must try Kerbal Space Program.  Recommended!","hours":68.3}
{"funny_percent":0.14285714285714285,"helpful_percent":0.7796696227495925,"review":"Kerbal Space Program is hands down the most fun I have had with a video game in quite a while. The core premise of the game is fairly simple: build some rockets, try to fly them to places. That might sound pretty straightforward, but where Kerbal Space program really shines is in HOW that is done, and how it is done is with SCIENCE. The game perfectly encapsulates one of the best ways of looking at science. I do not know what will happen if X. I guess I should try it and see. Holy♥♥♥♥♥♥ I didn't expect that. [knowledge gained] It really is a hell of an experience, and you can really feel it in full force thanks to the fact that there is very little hand holding in the game. In all liklihood, when you first sit down to play it you WILL mess up. Badly. You will have rockets flip over, burn up in the atmosphere, and explode. You will forget key parts, mess up staging, and accidentally deploy your parachutes at the same time as your engines. You will bolt things together at random because you have no idea what to do, run out of fuel stranded in space, and crash into moons at 2000 m/s. It will be a disaster, but you will keep at it, and eventually you will learn. As your Kerbals gain an understanding of their world and grow, so too will you, and believe me when I say that the feeling of accomplishment is tremendous. When you are flawlessly burning prograde at your apoapsis to circularize your orbit around some god-forsaken rock on the edge of the solar system, you will feel like a colossus bestriding the universe. It will be glorious.  I cannot recommend Kerbal Space Program highly enough. Buy this game right now and get started sciencing your way to the stars through a series of horrific explosions.","hours":900.5}
{"funny_percent":0.23076923076923078,"helpful_percent":0.7501418219641354,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW ✓ Fun, realistic rocket simulation ✓ Three different modes: sandbox, science, and career ✓ Huge variety of things to do, from exploring Kerbin to launching complex space stations  ✘ Are there really any cons to this game?","hours":63.2}
{"funny_percent":0.2169811320754717,"helpful_percent":0.7958459301680063,"review":"460+ hours in-game. Hundreds of mods to choose from. Still not bored. Probably visited all of the bodies atleast ten times. Still not bored. Built and had thousands of rockets explode on me. Still not bored. Flew a Kerbal into the sun, though cheats were needed. FUN. This game is bloody 10/10.","hours":642.9}
{"funny_percent":0.08835341365461848,"helpful_percent":0.9667765058151274,"review":"There are literally no reasons to not own this game.","hours":759.8}
{"funny_percent":0.826530612244898,"helpful_percent":0.9987713633747743,"review":"Do you like rockets? Do you like space? Do you like airplanes? Do you like explosions? Do you like failing to reach your objective?  Buy this game!!!","hours":95.9}