{"funny_percent":0.017857142857142856,"helpful_percent":0.7027265730182671,"review":"One of the best platformers around and a game that deserves to be in every gamer's library. Highly recommended!","hours":10.8}
{"funny_percent":1.054945054945055,"helpful_percent":0.9977436598985099,"review":"I pirated this game and felt so bad i bought it full cost twice.","hours":2.9}
{"funny_percent":0.05,"helpful_percent":0.8082666021224496,"review":"Even after all these years, LIMBO is still one of the greatest indie-game. It's hard to classify it: it's a platformer, but it will rarely require good timing; it's a puzzle game, but you won't spend hours trying to figure out solutions; it's a horror game, but there's no blood, no jumpscare, not even fear, just a disturbing atmosphere.   I wouldn't recommend this game if someone asked me to suggest a platformer, a puzzle game or a horror game. But for someone asking for something new and/or looking for a game with a peculiar atmosphere, I wouldn't hesitate one second. PLAY THIS GAME!","hours":5.4}
{"funny_percent":0.02564102564102564,"helpful_percent":0.7393759817643168,"review":"LIMBO is one of those 2-D platformer games with puzzle elements. You know, those games where you keep having to solve puzzles here and there moving objects, like crates, rocks, even dead bodies and deadly traps. I got this a long time ago, and this is the first time I actually tried playing this after casually \"finding\" it again in my library.   Pros:  + The controls are nice (I used a controller myself.), it feels intuitive and doesn't really ♥♥♥♥ you over with high gravity or slippery floors. It's kinda fast paced and doesn't force you to do ridiculous jumps all the time like SMB or Electronic Super Joy.   + The soundtrack consists mostly of ambient noise and fragments of something that sounds like a song here and there. I enjoy it myself, being in this shadowy world that's completely in silence really helps to build up the atmosphere. Sometimes the music gets louder, sometimes it's in complete silence (Usually before something bad happens.)  + Perhaps the thing I love the most about this game. The visuals; The whole world is black and white, with some kind of mist in the background. The characters are nothing but mere shadows, even the protagonist is a kid shrouded in shadows with just his eyes glowing. The world is gorgeous in a depressing way, after all, you're in Limbo. Forests, industrial areas, caves, lakes, even something that looks like a city. Rain pours down on you at some point, and it's nice and soothing. I really like the art style of this game. It's kinda gory too, your character can die in a wide array of painful deaths. Some are quite gory. Still, it's all in black and white, you'll see the shadows of your intestines.   + The world itself. This might count towards the visuals, though. This game is quite somber, and really atmospheric. You're adventuring into the unknown, and you'll find all kinds of weird stuff along the way. You'll find corpses all around, some of them suicide victims. Even the living beings in Limbo are hostile towards you. It truly is a cold and unforgiving world.  Neutral:  +/- This game gets quite challenging later on. This might be a con for some, a pro for others. Personally, I enjoy it myself. You simply CAN'T finish this game without dying quite a few times on the first run, because they game changes its rules at times, teases you, punishes you for taking the \"easy\" route. Sometimes, deaths are swift and gory, with less than a second to react. This game is a lot of trial and error, just like you'd expect from a game like this.  -/+ Another pro for some, con for others. This game is quite short. Puzzles are time consuming, and I dare to say, frustrating often, specially near the end of the game. Unless you use a guide, you might get stuck in there for a while. But if you know what to do and you don't die that often, you can easily finish this game in a couple of hours.   Cons:  - The trial and error IS unforgiving near the end. I personally enjoy this, again, but there are some parts where the game goes too far. I specially hate puzzles where your timing and positioning's gotta be spot on, or else you won't make it. This is INCREDIBLY frustrating if you're trying to get one of the game achievements, where you gotta die less than 5 times and finish the game in a single sitting. Sometimes, you know what to do, you know what to expect, but you were a few pixels away from the ideal position, and less than a second off. There, you're dead. I enjoy games that kick your♥♥♥♥♥with cheap deaths here and there, but I know lots of people would feel discouraged by this.   - I won't tell you exactly what happens near the end, but you might not like it if you were expecting something amazing to happen. The journey was worth it for me. But the ending felt kinda weak.  All in all, I would recommend picking this game up in a sale. If you are into puzzle/platformer games (I am not, sadly. I'm not the sharpest tool in the shed), this is quite an interersting title. The visuals and ambience alone are worth it for me, and the game's short enough for me to avoid giving up in frustration before completing it.","hours":10.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7685031728048137,"review":"This is a rather long review, so if you want a summary of why I recommend this game skip to Results and read from there.  Playdead games strikes gold with the hit title LIMBO. LIMBO is a game which keeps you guessing with interesting puzzles, complex scenarios, and an intriguing story. The games artistic styling’s does not seem cheap, but rather creates an ambience that makes LIMBO seem rather elegant.   Summary: LIMBO is a side scroller where you play a young boy who is on an adventure to seek his missing sister. The game is a platform game with integrated puzzles to solve in order to progress through to the next part of the game. The grey-tone of the game creates a rather fearful and discerning environment where a gruesome fate looks poetic. The game gets progressively harder and the puzzles become more challenging as you progress, although once you get a hang of the game you'll figure out it’s not too difficult. You meet many challenges along the way from rising water levels, monsters that force you in a direction, rope swinging, traps, and more that keep you on your toes. LIMBO is a great game which offers fantastic yet horrific scenery, music, and ambience. The game keeps you on your toes and the clever grayscale art style allows a rather terrifying world to be poetic.   Controls: My major gripe about this game was the control system. Although, I write a lot about this, it is actually a rather minuscule problem and doesn't at all ruin the games experience. You cannot edit the controls from inside the game, because the developers decided not to allow key-mapping within the games interface you must exit the game and edit the settings file within the LIMBO steamapps folder. The controls are worse because the jump command which is listed in the settings file is not an actual command in the game; there are only five commands: Left, Right, Up, Down, and Use. There are no resolution settings, so if you are using an odd resolution you may have problems playing this game. The one complaint I have towards this game is that character doesn't always respond well to the controls, which causes a lot of deaths that could easily be avoided if the character control system was better.   Gameplay Hints:     Results: Overall this game is a fun, the puzzles are challenging, difficulty curve is smooth, scenery is fabulous, ambience is frighteningly amazing, gameplay is elegant, and the symbolism makes the story phenomenal. I would completely recommend this game. I purchased it at a discount, but if I knew it was this fun I would have paid full price.  Pros: +Amazing environment +Great level design +Challenging puzzles +Mysterious and freaky ambience +Fun achievements +Great checkpoint system +Beautiful story +Not too long, but not too short +Very fun secret achievement  Cons: -No key mapping within the actual game -No resolution settings -Poor character control (it is not too bad once you get used to it, but at first its hard to get used to)","hours":6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9157937599723455,"review":"After properly completed this game with all of it's achievements (around 8 hours total playtime, but for some reason steam went offline for half of it) I can say that it was a great experience and a fun little game, steam categorised it as a horror game and I'm not sure that's what it is, even though it gives a few spooky vibes I find this game more deppressing than anything else. Just the fact that your playing as a little boy walking through the woods is quite unsettling. Of course, I won't spoil the game for anyone. Gameplay-wise, it contains a lot of puzzles which can be quite frustrating to play through, however you get a great feeling of accomplishement when completing them.  For anyone that wants to enter the realm of indie games, this is a great title to pick up, well worth the money,  thanks for reading :D","hours":3.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9569204898553205,"review":"Limbo is horrifically beautiful. It’s horrible, but startlingly pretty. A 2D puzzle-platformer built in black, grey and white. The figure of a young child hangs limply from a noose. Death is everywhere. White butterflies that flutter gently by are the only sign of hope.   The boy you control has a twee outline, all floppy hair and short trousers. The boy’s task? To find his sister. That’s all you need to know. There is no back story, no dialogue or cutscenes. Just the drive to push on through the shifting mists and silhouettes of the game’s environments and puzzles.  Trial-and-error makes up a large park of Limbo, a game where death isn’t just likely but often a prerequisite to understand the mechanics of a puzzle. But these tasks usually delight more than they frustrate. Most are fiendishly clever without being obtuse and the satisfaction comes in pulling each apart piece by piece. They’re tremendously varied too; some play with perception, while others see fit to flip gravity. There’s plenty of puzzles that run through the game’s short but perfectly formed running time of around five hours. And underpinning them all is good old-fashioned twitch platforming, with you maneuvering the boy; jumping, moving crates, and swinging across bottomless ravines.  Overall verdict:  Highly recommended!","hours":5.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7949125343720911,"review":"A game as intuitive and creative as it is cold, lonely, and bleak. The young boy's journey through the darkness and the many threats hidden throughout it is a breathtaking experience. Beautiful artwork and a physics system that lends itself very well to the maze of masterfully crafted puzzles makes every mistake a brutal consequence, but encourages a learning attitude. A near perfect, and emotionally moving game I would play again in a heartbeat. 4.5/5","hours":4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.877305697026914,"review":"Limbo is for me, truly original piece of art. Dark, harsh tone, black and white gore, and challenging puzzles are major pluses. Other thing i adore, is vizualization itself. This all together brings unforgettable gaming experience. Even though i said puzlles are big plus, they are also a minor minus. I felt that, sometimes are just too hard, especially when i was closer to the end. Some people find this type of challenge great, but at some point, i was discouraged to finish this game. In the end i really enjoy playing this game, it was different type of joy, depressive joy i could say.  Grade: A","hours":4.4}
{"funny_percent":0.13725490196078433,"helpful_percent":0.9093871261753754,"review":"When i finished this game I just sat and thought about how i just played a game with zero talking, commentary, subtitles, and music. Zero background on the plot. Zero idea of any of the characters names.   Yet I had more fun and got more attached to the characters than most games that have all of that.  10/10","hours":3.9}
{"funny_percent":0.09322033898305085,"helpful_percent":0.8771741570243832,"review":"It's your common platformer puzzle game... made by satan. Honestly, this game was a little bit of a disappointment when it comes to the \"puzzles\", I found them quite easy, I saw a lot of hype a few years ago about this game so I thought it was pretty hard. Also the story is short, it only took me 3 hours to beat it, and an extra hour to look for a couple of achievements.. On the other hand, though, this game is rather unique, both in terms of art and story, which makes this game really worth playing, just not worth the 10€ it costs. I'd suggest you to buy this game when it's on sale (Like I did) because 3/4 hours of gameplay is not worth 10€. (I'm a cheapskate, I know.)","hours":4.2}
{"funny_percent":0.023809523809523808,"helpful_percent":0.9865269845082465,"review":"You won't want this game to end.","hours":5.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8529960347305474,"review":"This game kind of makes me feel like I'm playing an old NES game but with better graphics and less fun 8-bit music. Its very simple mechanics make it quite an interesting game. You start off with no idea of what's happening, no back story, no one popping up telling you \"USE TEH ARROW KEYZ TO MOVE.\" It just throws you in the game, basically telling you, \"you figure it out. You're smart, right?\" Each time you fail a puzzle at first, you learn from your mistake how to go at it in a different approach. It's a fun little game that's a good game for reminiscing about simpler game times.","hours":4.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7509419570242327,"review":"Limbo is one of the best Indie-Titles out there. The puzzles of this game are not too hard but still add a lot of fun into the game. The atmosphere created by this game is simply amazing, there isn't any real story, or any story behind the whole world Limbo is playing in, but the story slowly builds itself with all the events happening. I really like the graphics of this game. It has its own little magic touch. Its worth the money and i really liked that game!","hours":3.5}
{"funny_percent":0.40816326530612246,"helpful_percent":0.969925542893084,"review":"Product received for free  One of the best platformer puzzle games out there. The music, atmosphere & story makes it unique, so whether it's free or not it's a must to have.   PS. If you're color blinded person &/or love spiders this is your game.","hours":19.2}
{"funny_percent":0.056179775280898875,"helpful_percent":0.7285562797566894,"review":"LIMBO is a puzzle platformer indie title released in mid 2010. It was originally released as an Xbox Live Arcade exclusive, before eventually moving to the PlayStation and PC in 2011, it latter got another port to PlayStation Vita and iOS, and yet another one onto the Xbox One and PlayStation 4, this goes to show just how popular this game is and how well received of a title it was.   This is a 2D side scroller platformer which uses the Box2D physics engine, which you may of heard of because it is also used in Angry Birds, and plenty of online Flash Games. You play as a young boy, and travel through the world filled with dangers and traps as you search for your lost sister. The puzzles in this game have a very trial and error theme to them. You probably will die a few times on the puzzles before you figure out the correct way of doing it. Each death comes with a horrific image of the poor boys rag dolled body plummet, get chopped up, speared, drowned, pretty much any sort of tragic death, this poor lad will go through it all.   The graphics are very simple, but very elegantly produced. Its a 2D side scroller so don't expect to see mind blowing realistic graphics; what LIMBO offers is beautifully crafted black and white tones. it is amazing how much atmosphere is generated just from the colour tones alone. The use of light and grain effects really create a spooky atmoshphere which alot of games try to produce but fail to capture as well as LIMBO. This game is often used as an example that videos games should be classed as a form of art.   LIMBO has a very open ended story; the main plot is you are trying to find your lost little sister; and that's about as much information as you get. I don't want to spoil the ending too much, but I was a LITTLE bit disappointed with it and I really hope that there might be a sequel eventually to this game to find out more.   There is next to no audio in the game, and no music. All of the sound effects are very minimalist, this fits in well with the spooky atmosphere which is being created, and probably makes it feel all that more eerie   A couple of puzzles in LIMBO had me scratching my head quite a bit before I was finally able to figure out what to do. I would warn you - there is a lot of jumping style puzzles and platforming events to get through. In my opinion, jumping puzzles are the worst, but they obviously have to be in platforming games so I just had to battle on through. The game does offer a very good respawn/checkpoint system though. If you die, you won't end up miles and miles behind where you just were, you'll normally spawn right before you messed up to let you try again - this made the trial and error mechanic work so much better as you don't have to replay content you have just got past.   This game's world is so well made, yet it doesn't have anything to interact with other than the puzzles, the minimalist theme keeps you on track the whole time, and you have little chance to explore off the track, simply because there is nothing to explore, it's a one track minded game, essentially you need to get from A to B, and you cannot come off the track. That's not necessarily a bad thing; games these days are often too \"open world\" style, and often overwhelm the player with too much to see. I liked how LIMBO kept me focused on the task at hand, which was the puzzles and progressing through the dark world I was in.   To play LIMBO from start to finish, it took me just under eight hours. That felt like the perfect length for the game, I would of liked to see a little more of the plot unfold, but it does leave it open ended for a possible sequel in the future. I see little reason to play it through more than once. It's 100% linear, and you will always end up with the same outcome and even the puzzles don't have more than one way to complete them, so unless you want to go achievement hunting, there is no reason to replay LIMBO.   LIMBO is certainly a highly popular game, and is so for good reason. The game does very little wrong in any of the criteria, and it showcases just how an indie game should be developed and published. The game has gone from strength to strength since being released on Xbox Live, and it still alive and kicking on the current gen consoles. For the price of £6,99, you are getting a simply amazing game.   Tom's Score Card 1) Stay away 2) Only recommended when on sale 3) Recommended 4) Highly recommended 5) This is a must play  If you found this review helpful, please consider giving it a thumbs up. You can also find more reviews over at http://www.completingthebackloggroup.com/    ","hours":10.5}
{"funny_percent":0.1391304347826087,"helpful_percent":0.876882615224039,"review":"To make a good game you dont need *main characters with muscles and charisma *thousands kinds of demolishin weapons *sandbox or huge maps *zombies or other brainless creatures *long dialogues *even the colors!  You just need a good idea like limbo, and new kind of view! ","hours":13.3}
{"funny_percent":0.20833333333333334,"helpful_percent":0.9317038515674381,"review":"Product received for free  Now I got this game for Free when it was free for like a Day.  The Art of the game is beautiful.......Black and White and Beautiful. Puzzles are Hard but not as hard as \"impossible and give up\" like Hard. I didn't get bored a single second while playing this game, Looking forward to play Playdead's Inside. But I kinda feel dissapointed that the game was Short. .","hours":15.7}
{"funny_percent":0.07142857142857142,"helpful_percent":0.7170458357390002,"review":"Product received for free  i got this game when it was free, not very suprised it costs money now.  without a doubt the best game ive ever played, the plot the levels and the gameplay are just perfect! big thumbs up to the makers of this game.  PS. this game is worth its money. id pay 20 euro's for it if i knew how good this game was gonna be","hours":3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8359032989471779,"review":"LIMBO\t* 8/10  The Combination of Minimalism and Difficult platform gave birth to LIMBO.  That line would be enough to describe this platform. Minimalism is some kind of philosophy in every aspect of this game, even before you buy it, the synopsis briefly reports you're down in Limbo because you're worried for your sister. That's all. Fine. As soon as you load the game you have nothing to set, no graphics, no keys, you just start the game waking up in limbo. There's no tutorial nor any explanation so you have to guess that the arrow keys move your character and CTRL is used to grab objects to pull or interact with buttons. The game won't explain anything at all but it's quite self explanatory as the purpose of the game is just to go on avoiding obstacles, solving riddles, and getting past traps and \"enemy entities\" you might encounter from time to time. And you will die. A lot. Because there are lots of traps and ricks, but there's no need for a tutorial as all riddles and obstacles are presented with a very balanced growing difficulty starting with simple puzzles and arriving to very tough and complicated riddles mixed with arcade sections giving a great challenge. Also, there's no save system, but an automatic and very frequent checkpoint system.  Visual art is minimalistic as well. Very minimalistic indeed as everything is in black and white, and the ambient is made of grey scales but everything is drawn with a great artistic taste as there will be interesting backgrounds and great light slices giving occasional inspired landscapes.  According to the game's minimalistic philosophy, music is almost non existent replaced by ambience effects or single notes played softly mixed with loud noises coming from dangers or props to emphasize the sensation of danger.  +++PROs+++ GAMEPLAY. This is the soul and the point of the game: going ahead, get past the dangers, solve riddles and survive. Riddles and traps will provide a really great and entertaining incrasing challenge. MINIMALISM. The game is designed to be minimalistic under every aspect and this turned out being a winning point for the game because you have to solve hard and difficult riddles with simple controls not to mention the inspired art conceived in plain black and white. ---CONs--- MINIMALISM. Minimalism itself can be a turndown because I can understand the gameplay, but at least the devs could have made me choose the key bindings. I know besides arrows the only key you need is CTRL but maybe I want to choose and, more importantly, know about that key. Also the lack of music after hours of gaming is really missed.  I played this game on this machine: Laptop Lenovo Z50 Intel Core i5-4210U 8Gb RAM DDR3 GeForce 840M/Intel HD Graphics 4400 Windows 10 Home x64  You can follow my reviews in my Steam group: Everybody's reviews You are welcome to join and post your own reviews, we can support each other! ","hours":4.1}
{"funny_percent":0.07766990291262135,"helpful_percent":0.815902688442499,"review":"Beautiful and Simple. just how things should be.","hours":2.8}
{"funny_percent":0.11764705882352941,"helpful_percent":0.8758822643524771,"review":"A quite sureal and perculiar adventure worthy for any gamer.","hours":8.6}
{"funny_percent":0.07142857142857142,"helpful_percent":0.8796851316996792,"review":"LIMBO is a side scroller puzzle game, developed and published by Playdead (creators of the spiritual successor, INSIDE). I cannot say much about this game's review so let's talk about gameplay, art style and theme of the game. I got this game for free when Playdead announced LIMBO would be free to celebrate their latest release, INSIDE (you should check it out, yo). You play as a lost boy who mysteriously arrived in the forest without explanation (You can interpret things what is going on). The theme of the game is monochromatic with minimalistic feel (no HUD or anything at all) and disturbing content. You come across with puzzles as you progress throughout the game and they are clever design that made stupidly easy and also required timing and reaction time. This game is very difficult than it would be. The soundtrack is well designed as well. The duration of this game is short (at least 3 and a half or less than that if you are speed runner player).  + Pros + Level Design + Mystery Story in your own interpretation + Monochrome with minimalistic art style + Immersive Sound Design + Pacing  - Cons - There's nothing negative about this game (unless you whinge about the difficulty of the game, so feel free to put that as a con for some)  Overall, this game is such a great game. The best platform game I have ever played. The level design, mystery story, the minimalistic art style and clever puzzle design made me push forward to finish the game. You can go back and start a new game again to find the secret eggs or finish the game at minimum 5 deaths, in order to get achievements. I highly recommend this game, it's a 10 out of 10, a highly recommended game to play.","hours":3.4}
{"funny_percent":0.11764705882352941,"helpful_percent":0.9085130569887545,"review":"If you've ever played a creepy black-and-white platformer, it doubtless owes Limbo a debt for paving the way. Its release on Xbox Live Arcade nearly seven years ago practically opened up a new genre of platformers to explore, those that unsettle and perplex with their ominous atmosphere and threatening aesthetic. We're a long way out from those heady days, and it's worth considering how well Limbo holds up now especially in the wake of its spiritual successor, Inside. But I can tell you up front, even coming to it now for the first time you won't be disappointed.  Limbo starts you off with no fanfare whatsoever, as a silhouetted child awakening in a forest. With no guidance you head rightward in search of something, probably not the deadly traps and machines and creatures that you find, though. Your journey will take you through the darkest parts of the forest, the forgotten corners of industry, and the decrepit heights of the city, with death awaiting you at every turn. There are no items and no real enemies, just you scrambling through a world that feels like it very much does not want you there.  As far as gameplay goes, you run, jump, climb, and push things. Your jump is a sad little hop that skews pretty hard on the realistic side, but levels are designed with this in mind and being more ground-bound helps keep your options focused. You'll need to do plenty of mantling up ledges and swinging on ropes, along with no shortage of crate pushing, log pushing, rock pushing, and so on. These skills will help you traverse the dangerous territories of Limbo, usually by overcoming some basic trap or hazard but later by clearing a path through more complex puzzle rooms.  It's important to note that the traps and puzzles never feel contrived, as they always have some discernible purpose in the bleak world you find yourself in. Spike pits and bear traps were clearly built by someone, machines have gears and hatches to negotiate, and the creatures you meet behave in strange and wild ways as suits their designs. Puzzles in Limbo tend to be the gratifying kind, the ones that make you feel clever for sorting them out even if they're simple to begin with. It's thanks to some straight-forward design that makes solutions seem obvious, along with some excellent environmental detailing that helps obscure the most obvious parts.  There are aspects of the game that are left too vague, however. Limbo has no shortage of ways to kill your hapless child but isn't always clear on how it plans to do it. A lot of deaths can easily be described as cheap the first time you encounter them by springing an unseen trap or not reacting to some new mechanic quick enough. The prime example for me is a pair of crushers in a cave about 1/3 of the way in. The first one has a raised plate, and if you step on it, you're safe; stepping on any other part kills you. The second one is the exact opposite, with the plate calling down instant death. This kind of design guarantees that nearly every single player will die at least once here, with survival being a literal matter of luck.  Death isn't a big deal in Limbo because the checkpoints are numerous and respawning happens swiftly. Still, the frequent unforeseen deaths have the potential to frustrate and are only really mitigated by how well they fit with the atmosphere. The lo-fi monochrome graphics give the game a terribly ominous and solitary feel that is built upon by the many unsettling and downright disturbing sights you'll come across. Atmosphere is Limbo's greatest asset, with few games even getting close to its horrific feel. Every time you see a new creature or device or even a shadow in the background you'll be wondering if you should fear it, even though you likely will already.  The sharp design elements that made Limbo an instant classic so many years ago have not dulled in the slightest. The aesthetic is still at the top of the genre, the puzzles remain clever and rewarding despite a glut of similar platformers, and the simple gameplay does not get old through the 2 or so hours it will take to finish (though be prepared for an extremely abrupt and unclear ending). There are some secrets to find if you're diligent, but really the beautiful, haunting journey is what you want to focus on here. It's just as good as it was at release, and anyone who likes their platformers creepy should have already gotten on this by now.    Did you enjoy this review? I certainly hope so, and I certainly hope you'll check out more of them at https://goldplatedgames.com/ or on my curation page!","hours":2.8}
{"funny_percent":0.5405405405405406,"helpful_percent":0.7005503971111795,"review":"Microscopic file size, no bugs or errors whatsoever, runs on a potato","hours":3.5}
{"funny_percent":0.010416666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.9487830562870856,"review":"Surreal, eerie, and kind of depressing. Yet, it is comforting in a strange way. One of the best atmospoheres I have ever seen in a game. Puzzling is unique. The strangeness of it makes you want to know what you are even doing there. The art and atmosphere make this a brilliant game.","hours":2}
{"funny_percent":0.028169014084507043,"helpful_percent":0.7520483720685173,"review":"LIMBO is a grim platformer in which you journey through an eerie world full of darkened enemies to reunite with your sister. In terms of a story, that's about all you get. Rather, the strength of this game is its atmopshere, puzzles, and some aspects of exploration.  You're given no real context about who or where you are, creating a mysterious tone that endures throughout the game. The art direction complements this perfectly. At no point do you have to wait through loading screens; the world is designed very fluidly, with each area leading smoothly into the next. While the levels are mostly linear, you are expected to backtrack in several; the game encourages exploration, with side paths often leading to hidden rewards.  The controls are extremely simple, relying only on the arrow keys and Ctrl by default. The puzzles start out relatively straightforward, but progressively increase in both difficulty and complexity as you continue. With every successive level, you are introduced to a new mechanic or aspect of level design that enhances the traps. While the overall theme of the game is relatively somber, the more exciting areas require quick thinking and precise movements. Many of the later puzzles involve quite a bit of trial and error, but I never became overly frustrated with any of them.  The only issues I have with the game are that it is locked to 60fps in fullscreen mode, and that the controls cannot be changed from the in-game menu. However, these things are not especially problematic. All things considered, the atmosphere and puzzles are fascinating. It's well worth a playthrough, especially if you can get it on sale.","hours":5.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8892299651406562,"review":"Good platform game.   The gameplay is based on puzzles that are smart and sometimes challenging, and they do a competent use of physics. The game has a great gloomy look, summarizing his name, the artwork is well done as well as the sound effects. Overall the game is solid. The plot is not openly covered, is more a concept of a search for the understanding of what is happening.   It's short and somewhat relaxing, good game to play in a calm day and without commitment.   7.5/10","hours":4.3}
{"funny_percent":0.05555555555555555,"helpful_percent":0.7306126710630737,"review":"Product received for free  LIMBO is a game about a little boy searching his lost sister in a dark world called Limbo where those who believe in neither Heaven nor Hell go. The controls are very reactive, and despite a bouncy/soft feeling, they are very responsive. The game isn't the longest at about and average of 3.5 hours, but challenges you almost every few minutes, so those 3.5 hours feel more like 5. The style of the game is very nice and mellow, with a shadowy look and deep surrounding sound effects and ambiance. The game engine allows for amazing physics, so jumpin, moving, and even dying feel smooth and real. This game is really fun and can be enjoyed if the player can accept defeat.","hours":1.2}
{"funny_percent":0.07407407407407407,"helpful_percent":0.92929821940048,"review":"very interesting game that it really need to use your mind , strongly recommend to buy and enjoy!","hours":12.1}
{"funny_percent":0.09523809523809523,"helpful_percent":0.8949360839780552,"review":"I had a really great time playing LIMBO, and all I have to say is that I wish we had LIMBO 2. Awesome!!!","hours":9.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9839176834528256,"review":"Masterpiece! One of the finest 2D platformers ever made! The atmosphere is great, the controls are simple but challenging to use in extreme situations! Overall, a fantastic game!  10/10","hours":2.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7912543600048061,"review":"My rating: 9/10 (based on two full and multiple partial playthroughs)  Pros:  (+) a purposely understated, open-ended story of a lone boy who wakes up in a dark forest, told without any dialogue through gameplay alone, with only a brief non-interactive sequences at the beginning and the end (+) simple and clean, but creepy and nightmarish greyscale visuals coupled with film grain filter, high contrast, and a strategic use of focus and light sources let your imagination run wild every step of the way (+) minimalist, often distorted ambient sounds with no music to break the eerie, haunting, almost palpable atmosphere of oppression and loneliness (+) simple controls with a wide variety of clever environmental, mechanical and physics-based puzzles with hardly any repetition, each scenario presenting a different challenge or a twist on the tried and tested platforming mechanics (+) frequent checkpoints and wickedly gruesome death animations make the constant trial-and-error less frustrating and gratifying in its own twisted way, each failure serving as a learning experience (+) perfectly playable with just a keyboard, but even better with an analogue controller (it’s an Xbox 360 port after all) (+) a very impressive little gem that takes less than 100 MB of space and doesn't require a high-end rig to run  Cons:  (−) can be considered too short for the asking price (−) the ending may be considered anti-climactic and leave some players unfulfilled (−) gets almost too easy if you play it often or long enough… or just to get your money’s worth ;-)","hours":17.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9921576011362186,"review":"Indie games, like everything else in gaming, is hit or miss. Some indie games attempt to bring something new to the table while others take a familiar formula and mix it up a bit. Limbo is the latter taking elements from games that veteran gamers will probably recognize, but put in a package that has not been seen before.  In Limbo, you control a boy that’s looking for his sister in Limbo. Yes that’s all you get for storyline because there will be plenty of interpretations of the plot once the gaming public gets their hands on it. There are so many nuances and details throughout the game that you feel that there’s a deeper story hidden, and the only way to learn about that story is to replay certain areas again and again to see how it all fits. A common theme you’ll find in this review that the simplistic look and gameplay of Limbo is just the surface of this complex game.  Reminiscent of an indie film, Limbo is only done in black and white. No colors or 3D, but instead a very animated 2D style. Your character has a very artistic look to him with only white eyes on a black silhouette, and the world has many instances where the objects and creatures on screen are simply mesmerizing. Again, what comes to mind when playing through this game are those movies that choose black and white rather than color to give their film a distinct yet considerably powerful look to it as Limbo has done. Keeping the game devoid of color, your mind wants to almost see the color that should be there making you pay even more attention to those object that should have some sort of color to it. Then there are scenes that are so detailed that you may overlook the lack of color because you see so much around you that color becomes not important. It’s simply an impressive sight to see a game that has no color yet provides such artistic imagery.  As the graphics of Limbo remind me of various black and white movies, the game itself brings back memories of multiple games that I’ve played throughout my time as a gamer. Essentially the game combines platforming that most gamers are familiar with, and puts you in puzzle situations that require a lot of thought. As you make your way through the level, you’ll eventually come to an obstacle of some sort. Whether it be a ledge too high to reach, a body of water to traverse, or a creature in your way, it will be your task to figure out how to get by as your character does not have any abilities aside from jumping, running, and interacting with objects.  Not only does your character not have any abilities, but the boy is frail. In the words of Until We Win host Lord Kat, you’re going to die... a lot. You can’t swim, survive long drops, defend yourself against creatures, or even take a hit to the head from a box falling from a certain height. Limbo might as well have been called \"Trial andError\" as you will be doing that for hours on end. Thankfully the developers Play Dead Studios (kind of fitting that they would have \"dead' in their name) made dying less of a hassle. The game is split into areas where the puzzle is located. This means you’ll always find yourself right when the puzzle starts, and you can’t get any further until you pass the puzzle. The deaths in the game are particularly brutal making for this to be the bloodiest black and white game. Dying is especially painful to watch in certain situations when you realize that this is a child that has just been offed in such a callous way. It fits with the nature of the game as the seemingly simple and innocence of a child searching for his sister takes such a harsh turn making for a more dramatic experience sans the audible narrative.  Taking about 4.9 hours on average to complete, the only true reason to keep playing Limbo is for achievements. I must add the achievements are far from being conventional as well as being far from easy making for a true challenge for achievement ♥♥♥♥♥s.  Limbo is a game for a certain type of gamer. A gamer that enjoys a good challenge in a game rather than having it be overtly difficult, someone that appreciates a game that feels familiar to other games of the past, while not being a complete knock-off, and wants a taste of something new with a flavor that is still recognizable. For that reason, I can’t recommend that everyone needs to play this game, but I do feel that people should play this game. If anything, this game is one of those refreshing breaths of air that a gamer needs to take here and there to remind you that there are games that offer something different.   My Rating: 9.1/10     ","hours":4.9}
{"funny_percent":1.6923076923076923,"helpful_percent":0.9774854937024668,"review":"\"A titillating experience. I'm not quite sure what titillating means, but I like the word\" - George Carlin","hours":5.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9273159022866418,"review":"Limbo is a very Good Strategy Game that will often leaving you asking your self \"How stupid am I?\" when u cant finally figure out some of the levels... The Game has some very dark tendencies (e.g. using someones dead body to help you get across water, or ripping off a bugs leg to help you climb something....) Overall the Game is good, and at its price its definitely a good experience, overall would I recommend people to get this game... Yes I would, It's a Fun game that will really make you think alot to get through some levels.","hours":6.9}
{"funny_percent":0.647887323943662,"helpful_percent":0.7465939461770769,"review":"Bruh, it's free. As a simple Dutch man, I need to have it.     Off topic:   it's a great game. Just buy get it. It's amazing fun.  Edit : Dr. Krieger and RetroBionical pointed out that this game is not free anymore. Ha, you missed a chance to get a game for free.","hours":3.2}
{"funny_percent":0.03571428571428571,"helpful_percent":0.7215451863509884,"review":"Gorgeous, unique silhouette art style with incredible subtle lighting effects; amazing sound design that actually helps you play the game; surprisingly rich atmosphere for such a minimalistic game; great gameplay (after a bit of getting used to your character's more realistic maneuverability compared to most video game heroes); puzzles so clever you'll think Valve went 2d. And to top it all off, the hidden eggs and bonus level are that rare kind of super-fair, intuitive challenge, rather than over-the-top nonsense. The biggest gripe would be that there are a handful of points in the game where you have to simply wait around for a bit too long, but it's nothing major.  If you still haven't played this, give it a go. It's a small game with a one-of-a-kind atmosphere and everything about it just fits right.","hours":8.7}
{"funny_percent":2.1153846153846154,"helpful_percent":0.7809622505724878,"review":"Skip along through the nightmare land To the beat of the Limbo band Get it goin, the water flowin’ And by the way, ya can’t swim.  All the people ya meet are rude Plus the spider who thinks you’re food Do whatever, you’re here forever In short it feels a bit grim.  Limbo! Limbo!  Come get stuck in Limbo! Limbo! Limbo!  No one can hear you cry.","hours":8.7}
{"funny_percent":0.14814814814814814,"helpful_percent":0.8767624799030425,"review":"I'm not a big fan of platformer games. But this is one of a few I finished and I really enjoyed. Maybe because it's just not a typical platformer. There is more than just jumping and solving easy puzzles. Of course those elements are also included, except some puzzles are not so easy. This more is atmosphere. This is one of the most atmospheric game I've ever played. Lights, sound, opponents, all elements create gloomy and violent, but beautiful world. This is really one of rare examples, when gaming is combined with art.  VERDICT: I recommend this game to absolutely everybody. Maybe not for small children, cause it may be too scary for them.  Like this review? Consider to join Good Games Giveaways & Reviews group and maybe press big sexy \"Follow this curator\" button on our curation page to read more reviews and win free games.","hours":6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7040244307594858,"review":"An independent platformer developed by a Danish company called Playdead. Limbo has a unique, eerie atmosphere that usually characterises the horror genre. The atmosphere is the result of the dark (black and white) presentation and the lack of music throughout the adventure.  It is one of those trial-and-error games where in order to successfully solve a puzzle in many cases you either need to react quickly or you have only one chance for a perfect execution. If you fail you can start all over from the previous checkpoint and you should also watch how the boy dies (often in quite a gruesome way). To be honest, I can easily imagine that this unique presentation deters some gamers from even trying out the game. Its trailer, in fact, presents the game's one-of-a-kind aesthetics very well.  There is a nice learning curve here and the game has some easter eggs for you to collect - mainly for the purpose of extra achievements, of course. If you love hardcore gaming you can complete Limbo in one sitting with fewer than 5 deaths to earn the hardest achievement of the game.  Limbo has a unique atmosphere. While it is not a long platformer it certainly is a great game. Unfortunately, due to its length and genre I consider 10 EUR a bit too expensive - still, we all know there are regular discounts so until it happens it deserves a place in everybody's wishlist.","hours":5}
{"funny_percent":0.18181818181818182,"helpful_percent":0.7740280463192803,"review":"''Some of you may die, but that is a sacrifice I am willing to make\". - Lord Farquaad (Shrek, 2001).  LIMBO is a platforming puzzle game at it's core, rewarding you for exploration but also punishing you for mistakes, not knowing the game mechanics or simply being new to the trap. Although this has been done many times before (Mario), LIMBO has a unique art style that easily sets it apart from other games of the genre. The noir aesthetic of the game is fresh and immersive, as the seemingly busy backgrounds of the game are calmly blended in, seamlessly changing monochrome locations and keeping the environment from becoming stale. The plot is ambiguous at best outside of a sole objective revealed later on into the game, which does mean the game may not motivate, but it was obviously done to reinforce the mystique that the aesthetic creates. It isn't a masterpiece like many quickly claimed it was, as it is simply too short and simplistic to warrant comparison to other classic games; LIMBO is however worth the play for the breath of fresh air it'll give the seemingly rare gamer that doesn't have the attention span of an 8 year old.  You will die. A lot. But don't miss out on a unique and special experience that is still one of a kind 6 years later.","hours":0.8}
{"funny_percent":0.02631578947368421,"helpful_percent":0.8004044495519348,"review":"Perfectly made for those who love 2D short story puzzle adventure games & surely enjoyable to every one else due to it's simplicity of controls.","hours":1.9}
{"funny_percent":2.5306122448979593,"helpful_percent":0.9669354012328217,"review":"Being highly aracnofobia I am slightly more physiologically damaged now than I was before. 10/10","hours":2.6}
{"funny_percent":0.07142857142857142,"helpful_percent":0.8683405517983389,"review":"Probably one of the best black and white, if not the best, puzzle games.","hours":3.6}
{"funny_percent":0.034482758620689655,"helpful_percent":0.9029816386958749,"review":"You are a boy searching for his missing sister. You wander through gloomy forests, explore forbidding caves and try to escape a industrial complex of whirring machines and smoke stacks – all painted in silhouette against the smoky greys of an old flickering film. It's amazing that such a simple approach can create such a nightmarish atmosphere.  'Simple' is an excellent word to sum up this indie platform game. From its monochrome presentation to its single sentence storyline, it creates a spare, deadly, lonely world, devoid of colour and distraction. You brave yawning landscapes with nothing but the rustling of your feet to keep you company. Large sections of the game are silent but for the occasional drip of water, or a cavernous echo, sometimes punctuated by fractured, urgent music, or footsteps racing into the distance. The only humans you come up against are hostile, chasing you away with spears and darts.  Everything in Limbo is out to harm you. From the moment the scenery come to life when that first giant spider-leg unfurls, a hundred times more menacing than it has any right to be, you're in world that doesn't want you there.  It's a meat grinder, coldly snapping beartraps around your fragile little frame, crumbling the boy into a pile of body parts. It stresses you into making mistakes: you know exactly what horrible thing is about to happen to your little ward when presented with a pressure plate and a crushing device.  Limbo's obstructions are grossly imaginative, requiring morbid solutions: one puzzle's resolution comes when you drag a corpse into a pool so you can use it as a bloated, floppy stepping stone to the other side. When not being chased by implacable spiders with a penchant for skewering bodies, you'll be feverishly searching for floating crates to ride as water rises above your ankles, or plucking the remaining leg off a maimed spider and rolling its body to block spikes and clamber to a ledge.  Limbo's initial morbid world of beartraps, corpses and ravenous arachnids eventually leads you into industrial levels, full of more conventional puzzles, such as gravity switches, elevators and even machinegun turrets. It's around this mark that the puzzles become far more frustrating, requiring precision timing to progress. You'll occasionally be reduced to a weeping mess of tears and tantrums, defeated by a straightforward but deadly puzzle that can only be overcome by getting everything just so. I spent a lip-gnashing, keyboard smashing 20 minutes trying to run across a length of railway track before a descending minecart hit a switch to electrify the rails. Twenty damn minutes watching my boy judder as his tiny legs failed to make the last jump.  Your most horrific foes are the brain slugs, which drop from above and burrow into your skull. Once nestled in your cranium, they force you to stagger in one direction – normally straight into a pit of spikes.  Make no mistake: you're going to die. A lot. It's impossible to pass five minutes without succumbing to Limbo's sick snags. But finally realising the infuriatingly simple solutions and achieving that bloody jump will reward you with Portalsized feelings of smugness and relief.  It's a little disappointing to have waited a year for this game to get ported to PC only to find keyboard control is locked to the cursor keys, but in spite of that – and Limbo's short playtime (around three to five hours) – you simply cannot miss out on this darkly evocative experience. It has its frustrations, but it's a beautiful argument for games as art.  Limbo is a beautifully designed masterpiece of a platform game, that will chill, challenge and charm in equal measure. 8.5/10","hours":4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8779598308695824,"review":"Limbo is a well made atmospheric game. For being a indie game it sure is beautiful. I completed the game in one sitting, rougly 3 hours. If you like Platformer and Puzzle games, you should really play Limbo. It got great texture and a wonderful dark theme into it. Some puzzles are harder then the others, but I'd say the more you give it a try (for each death), the more you're going to complete each puzzle easier and you won't be needing a guide for it! You should be aware it's really short for the price tag so that's why I recommend you to buy it when it's on sale. ","hours":4.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9220201975855657,"review":"ᴡᴀᴋᴇ ᴜᴘ ғʀᴏᴍ ᴀ ʟɪғᴇ ғᴇᴇʟ ᴛʜᴇ sᴡᴇᴇᴛɴᴇss ᴏғ ᴍᴇʟᴀɴᴄʜᴏʟʏ sᴏʟɪᴛᴜᴅᴇ - ᴀ ᴛʀᴜᴇ ғʀɪᴇɴᴅ","hours":12.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9217969721894872,"review":"Limbo is probably one of the most atmospheric and beautiful little indie gems that came out before the whole indie hype started. It is the predecessor of dozens of platformers that tried to steal from its ideas and yet, until this day, it remains one of the best of them. Art design, sound and the platforming elements are just brilliantly connected to each other and while the game is completely in grey, it still is able to convey harsh graphic violence and a superbly disturbing feeling along the journey.  It's not too long, but it is worth every penny. One of the most beautiful platformers within the last couple of years.","hours":19.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.722512475493904,"review":"Limbo is a dark, slightly twisted 2D side scrolling puzzle game with stunning artwork, and a fantastic atmosphere. Despite being a relatively short game (if you know how to do all the puzzles), Limbo still provides a incredible dark and challenging experience as you move through the story trying not be squashed, stabbed or cut in half.  Pros: + Stunning black and white artwork + Refined, smooth and simple controls + Dark and interesting puzzles + Fantastic dark and eerie atmosphere + Hidden eggs to explore and find + Achievements + Full controller support, perfect for Big Picture Mode  Cons: - A fairly short game - Limited replayablility as you'll know how to complete the puzzles (will always be a good game to come back to though)  My Score: 9/10","hours":13.9}
{"funny_percent":0.4117647058823529,"helpful_percent":0.9760174947057436,"review":"You'll have to learn the game mechanics ( You' learn those in the first chapters ). You'll think the game is easy. You'll see the game is not easy. You'll die over and over and over and over again. You'll have to try again. You'll be frustrated. You'll be disappointed You'll be desperate. You'll learn from your mistakes. You'll be happy when you finished a chapter. You'll get rewarded. You'll have fun.  So as you hopefully can see this game is fun because you get rewarded for finishing a chapter in wich you died so damn often and tried over and over again and finnaly be happy.  Story: There is no real story.  Graphics: It's a 2D black-white game it doesn't need good graphics, it's all about the atmosphere.  Sound:  The sound is very inportant in this game it's important for the atmosphere.  So overall I'd recommend this game as it's compelling and fascinating how easy it can be to make a great game without a story and good 3D graphics. ","hours":6.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8579438557670904,"review":"Product received for free  Review: Limbo  -Genre: Puzzle, Platformer. -Game Style: (none). -Theme: Fantasy, Dark. -Mode of view: Sidescroller. -Singleplayer: Yes. -Local multiplayer: No. -Online multiplayer: No. -Sandbox: No. -New Game Plus: No. -Level Selection: Yes. -Leaderboards: No. -Aproximated total duration: 3 hours. -Aproximated campaign duration: - -Recommended age: +14.  Pros: -Its dark black and white graphic style looks impressive. -Has many levels, some require both timing and thinking. -There are some secret collectables that add replay value.  Neutral: -Most of the time, there is no background music.  Cons: -Some parts are very hard and frustating. -A extremely difficult achivement for collectors.  Mark: 8,00. Notes: (none).","hours":7}