{"funny_percent":0.01963350785340314,"helpful_percent":0.9803498471804304,"review":"In theory papers please should not be a fun game. It is literally a simulation of performing a monotonous, tedious and thankless job. But the game is definitely a good game.  So what makes the game fun?  I have concluded that the game survives almost completely upon atmosphere. There is a tragic realism to horrible job you have in this third world nation. You live in so much poverty with the risk of illness or starvation being a very real threat. It gives you many moral dilemmas and will test your principles in ways games do not normally expect you to. You are paid so little that you find yourself accepting bribes to let terrorists, smugglers, etc. into Arstotzka. And you will accept the bribes, because often it is the difference between eating and not.   Yet at the same time the game is humorous. The customers make it so and some have very humorous personalities. You will get to know your favorite customers and favorite scenes. The world is so overblown with propaganda, corruption, etc. that the grim world becomes humorous (to those not in it).   Finally, the world reacts to the player. You’d be amazed how big of an impact deciding who to let into the nation can have on the nation. You let an assassin into the nation a high ranking official may die and the government will respond with harder boarder policies. It is generally simple things, but these really complete the atmosphere.  The game play itself is a point and click adventure. Where you will face a number of customers which you must either let in or find the error in their paperwork. It is all done on a timer forcing you to be quick. It almost becomes stressful.  The graphics look like they belong on an Atari and yet somehow seem appropriate. You are matching blurry faces to other blurry faces.   In conclusion I recommend this game. It is fun and addictive. Glory to Arstotzka","hours":19.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8216008108273456,"review":"I had no idea what I was getting into with this game. From what I'd heard you just sit at a border checkpoint and decide if people are allowed to enter the country or not. And that's exactly what I got, but Papers, Please is so much more than that. It's not just a job simulation, it's a story of moral choices and corrupt government. It's not just about a border guard, it's about a man who struggles to provide for his family, who must work for the smallest of wages to make some of the toughest choices. You sit in your little checkpoint booth. A man comes up and hands you his passport. You skim over the information and stamp a big green \"APPROVED\" for him. He thanks you and starts to walk away, but before he does he says, \"my wife is right behind me, please be nice to her.\" Sure enough, up steps a nice young woman. There's her passport. You look down and see an expiration date of last month. \"This document is expired\" you say. She stares at you, eyes wide and pleading: \"Please, if I go back to my country they will kill me. Please let me in.\" What do you do? Do you risk losing your paycheck and therefore leave yourself unable to buy medicine for your sick son? Or do you abandon all morality and turn the woman away?  Papers, Please is not an easy game, nor is it free of consequences. Not only does it become insanely difficult to reivew piles of papers and make sure every little details is accrate and correct, but every choice you make determines who you are and the path you take. Will you work tirelessly for the glory of Arstotzka, or will you join the Order and be a part of the uprising against the tyrannical, corrupt government?","hours":9.8}
{"funny_percent":0.9125,"helpful_percent":0.7537279434139407,"review":"You stamp ♥♥♥♥in passports the whole game and somehow, you get more endings and meaningful choices than Mass Effect Andromeda","hours":12.3}
{"funny_percent":1.0141623488773748,"helpful_percent":0.9986014344305201,"review":"Papers, please. What do you mean? I just want to review the game. Due to a recent acts of vandalism, reviewers are required to provide proper id. Oh, yes sure, here you go: ╔════════════════════════╗ ║ Steam-User-Certificate ║ ╠========================╣ ║ Name:        Janus     ║ ║ SteamId:     Headmade  ║ ║ Level:       24        ║ ╚════════════════════════╝ The certificate states you are level 24, but according to our database this is not true. Well yes, I have leveled up since. I will have to search you, turn around. What?! This is ridic... There is something in your pocket. Is that a Bad Rats badge? Erm I'm keeping that for a friend, I would never play such a... With credentials like this you do not qualify as a reviewer. Guards! Nooo! Detain! But papers please is great game! You hear me? It's AMAZIIiing... Next! ","hours":18.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.98576848153285,"review":"Papers, Please has no right to be as fun as it is. Papers, Please has no right to be as poignant as it is. Papers, Please has no right to be possibly the best PC game of 2013 I've played. Papers, Please is all of these things.  The gameplay of Papers, Please is more or less a tedium simulator. It's Paperwork: The Game. And yet, you know that you need to process as many of these poor people as you can so that your family won't starve. You know that the old lady who you just denied will probably never see her son again; you know the young man you just let through has less than glorious ambitions in your city. Will you support the rebels? Will you toe the party line? Will you let the young lady through, even though her passport is clearly fake, because her fiance was just before her and bribed you to do so? The choice in this game is staggering, and the simplicity of the game itself allows for complete assimilation of your mind into the mind of your character. You feel bad when your child gets sick, but you know that food is sometimes more important than heat.  Papers, Please is a work of video game brilliance - a work of art. I give it seven out of seven stars.","hours":4.7}
{"funny_percent":0.09090909090909091,"helpful_percent":0.8199102085142131,"review":"Papers, Please is an amazing game with an immersive story, fine music and great minimalistic art.  This game wasn't made for killing time. This game can and will kill you if you're not careful. It builds tension, it makes you question your morals, it makes you genuinely feel bad for your mistakes. It has the perfect atmosphere. You're in the shoes of a miserable inspector, checking miserable travellers, and the game will make you feel miserable just like them. It actually feels like having a job. And at the end of each day, you're happy that you made it through and that your son is still alive. It can't get more immersive than that, in my opinion.  The learning curve is steep, and I should say that for the less organized and less prepared players, it would take you a few restarts to learn a system to work it out. I know it did for me. But I wouldn't regret buying this game, it's great.  If what you want is a game that will make you suffer, get this.","hours":6.9}
{"funny_percent":0.774798927613941,"helpful_percent":0.8937528404105226,"review":"East Grestin, 1982  Here comes that weird guy again. The one in the red sweater and with the crooked smile always plastered on his face. It's the third time already, this month. I look at him through the glass as he waves at me in an oddly familiar way that makes me feel a little bit awkward. «Old friend, hello! I am back again! This time everything set!». His voice is loud and cheerful, and I just can't help but wonder what the heck is wrong with him. There's nothing to be so happy about in this rotten place, you old geezer. «Papers, please» I simply say, ignoring his greetings.  He grins while handing me his brand new passport. I chuckle. Definitely better than the last one, at least this one is not pre-approved. «So this time you're from Obristan, I see, Mr... Jorji Costava? Is this even your real name?». His grin grows even wider and he starts laughing again. «You a funny guy. I didn't like Cobrastan that much anymore. Obristan sure is a better country». He speaks with a tick foreign accent that makes me wonder where he is really from.  «Cobrastan isn't even a real country, in the first place» I point out matter-of-factly. «Where's your entry ticket?». His smile fades a little.  «Arstotzka so great, we don't need an entry ticket!».  «This is the same thing you said last time about passports. I'm sorry, an entry ticket is required». I hand his passport back. «Wow, you run very strict border here». He puts his paper back in the pocket of his trousers, shrugging. «That is good. Do job right. I look for entry thing and come back». Before leaving the booth, he stares intensely at me. «You a good guy, but I have business in Arstotzka. I see you soon». He waves me goodbye and then disappears in the crowd, with that big careless smile on his face.  *  I keep staring at the ceiling of my bedroom. In the end, it seems I can't really sleep at all tonight. I can hear my wife coughing weakly beside me. The doctor said it's just a cold, but she's getting worse day after day. I'm slightly worried. Our son is sleeping in the next room, the only one lit by the sun in the morning. He is turning 7 next week. I'd really want to buy him a special present for his birthday. We are currently living in a small apartment provided by the Ministry of Admission, here in East Grestin. The rooms are small and the heather doesn't work half the time. On top of that, our neighbours are awfully nosy. Living here is not that great, but there's really nothing I can do about it.  *  A week has passed since Jorji Costava last showed up. Maybe he is having a hard time finding a fake entry permit. Maybe he just gave up. Quite unlikely. The siren's ringing, another day of work is starting.  A tall figure silently enters the booth. He's wearing a green hood and his face is hidden behind a grey mask. I'm about to call the security, but he gently slides a paper note under the window and stares at me. «There's no much time, be quick please». His voice sounds young- he's probably younger than me- and unusually relaxed. My hands are shaking and I don't even know why. There's an odd symbol drawn on top of the card, a star-shaped one. I slowly open the note and start reading. I can feel the masked guy's staring gaze on me.    ARSTOTZKA IS GREAT COUNTRY POISONED BY CORRUPT LEADERS  WAR HAS MADE GOV'T GREEDY AND PARANOID - YOU HAVE SEEN FOR YOURSELF  HELP US FREE ARSTOTZKA FROM ITS SHACKLES  + THE ORDER OF THE EZIC STAR    I'm in a cold sweat. I look up at the masked guy, I'm at a loss for words. «Our agents are ready», he helds out his hand, eyeing the card. «Starting tomorrow. Let them pass».    In Papers, Please you play as an immigration inspector working for the Ministry of Admission of Arstotzka in East Grestin. Your job is to check on people trying to enter Arstotzka and decide who can pass through the border and who has to be denied or even arrested. Most of the time, your decisions will lead to a different ending (not always a good one!). Choose wisely, the destiny of Arstotzka, your family and many other people is in your hands.    Pros:  -Well written dystopian settings -20 different endings -Lovely retro graphics -Jorji Costava -Great plot and sub-plots -Shooting terrorists from your inspection booth since 1982 -Did I already mention Jorji Costava?    Cons: -Maybe old school graphics are not everyone's cup of tea (I personally love it though) -Stamping visas and check out papers will probably sound boring to someone -There's no \"Escape to Obristan with your newfound best friend Jorji\" ending  Papers, Please is hands-down one of my favorite games. Be sure to give it a try, you definitely won't regret it.","hours":30.1}
{"funny_percent":0.022292993630573247,"helpful_percent":0.93942808255418,"review":"General Thoughts / Review  Every once in a while an indie game comes along that, to me, is not a clear like or dislike. I started playing Papers, Please and go to day eight before quitting the first time. I thought to myself, \"Who the hell wants to play a game based on stamping visas? I can't wait to get done working for the day at my REAL job!\"  Two days later I found myself thinking about the game. I wanted to know what happened to the people I approved or denied. Was it better to deny them entry, or to be a tyrant and detain them? I mean, who doesn't know that their visa information is incorrect. LIAR! YOU ARE A CRIMINAL!  It is just a game though, why do I care? I did not, really. I played again, anyway.  The game kept my enthusiasm up as the difficulty ramped up, money was tight, and I seemed to be responsible for the lives of so many more pixel people than I anticiapted. I enjoyed it up until the very end. Good job, author.  Pros Amazingly enough, makes stamping visas intriguing if you are the type of player that can get immersed in pixels. The save system is AWESOME. Almost like a source code repository, if you start playing at an existing day, you create a branch at that day and continue playing in a parallel universe. Many different endings depending on choices made throughout the game. Reminiscent of Chrono Trigger, you do not have to get to the last day to trigger some endings. Even though simple and interactions are quick, you can feel sympathy or opposed to certain characters.  Cons Replayability was low for me. The game has very varied endings, but I found that after I meta-gamed the Steam Achievements out, I was not inclined to go back through and try to get the endings for which there are no achievements for. Certain things feel pointless in the game - although that might have been the developers intent. Can be frustrating and wig out your OCD.  Recommendation  I would recommend Papers, Please if you are type of gamer who does not need flashy graphics or rapid game play to be entertained. If you are a fan of indie game development, Papers, Please is an enjoyable title that may grow on you as it has grown on me.","hours":20.6}
{"funny_percent":4.147286821705427,"helpful_percent":0.7675462044967317,"review":"Woman: What is this Drawing on the Wall? Woman: My Dog Can Do Better Inspector: It is from my Son Woman: Oh Woman: Maybe He Should Try Sports Inspector: You Have made a mistake coming here Woman: Please Let Me through. *Gets Detained* Woman: What are you doing? Woman: Is this Because i make fun of drawing? Woman: I Take it Back! Woman: Picture Should Be in Museum!","hours":31.4}
{"funny_percent":0.9833333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.9606404088680038,"review":"I thank Arstozkan government for privalege of working to defend border   I support large family through hard work for glory of Arstotzka  I shoot Kolechian terrorist to defend glorious Arstozka  I recommend  Glory to Arstozka","hours":7.8}
{"funny_percent":0.065,"helpful_percent":0.765326190052575,"review":"Papers, Please Papers, Please is a one of a kind game. It has a concept I have never seen before, and I doubt I will ever see it again. Despite the pixelated graphics, the game manages to very strongly portray a dark, dystopian world. The borders between two enemy soviet states, Kolechia, and Arstotzka, have opened up for the first time in years, and as a border inspector, it is your job to watch for terrorists, smugglers, illegal immigrants, wanted criminals, and people with a quarantined disease, it is very easy in this game to forget something, and let in, or keep out, someone who should have stayed in / out. Stats Papers, Please contains: 13 Steam achievements A \"30 day\" Story mode 20 different possible endings to story mode 5 family members to look after with soviet wage Pros Interesting, retro graphics Good soundtrack Increasingly challenging as the game progresses An interesting story, filled with the options of corruption, or loyalty, deceit, or truth. Multiple endings In over 20 hours of gameplay, I have never found a bug Cons Game can eventually begin to feel repetative A few things are timed poorly, and give not as big an impact as they could if done properly Some of the most exciting things mentioned in the papers never influence the main storyline Although an amazing game, it is the kind of game that takes a while to get into. It does not start out the most fun game. TL;DR Papers, Please is a one of a kind game, with a lot of different factors that must be taken into account when playing, a combination of planned events and random ones, even in the main storyline makes the story replayable. However, this game is not going to be everyone's cup of tea; may be boring to some. Overall, I reccommend this game. Overall rating 7/10","hours":29.2}
{"funny_percent":2.937007874015748,"helpful_percent":0.961076803980006,"review":"Until this game, I never believed I could be racist towards countries that don't exist.","hours":7}
{"funny_percent":1.13125,"helpful_percent":0.9744590319857528,"review":"Arstotzka so great, passport not required.","hours":3.5}
{"funny_percent":0.01282051282051282,"helpful_percent":0.895007436295282,"review":"This is a testament to the power of games as a medium. It manages to be, all at once, an intellectual stimulation, an escape from reality, and social commentary. It is art, entertainment and work rolled into one. As the player, you are presented with a task that is very much like a lot of paper-pushing jobs out there. Yet here it becomes an intellectual challenge; a test of your mettle and attention. And somehow it is still fun. This is quite an accomplishment in terms of gameplay.  The story, meanwhile, is at once Orwellian and Kafkaesque. It is a kind of social commentary, but not on-the-nose; it is subtle, humourous, nuanced. The recurring characters, with very brief screen time, manage to be interesting and memorable. The Soviet aesthetic is superbly done in terms of design and visuals. The UI can be annoying sometimes, but it's part of its charm and challenge.  Above all, this is a game that is sui generis: its own beast. There are games with similar mechanics, but the aesthetic and the pacing make Papers, Please unique.","hours":22.6}
{"funny_percent":1.9650698602794412,"helpful_percent":0.8387151808213502,"review":"One day a woman came to my booth She said a man was following her and I must not let him through or she would be forced into slavery The man came through with valid papers I denied him I was told that the man had valid papers and was charged 5 credits I am now 5 dollars in debt to the great state of Arstotzka I come home to find my child and wife have been taken by sickness I hear knock at door I answer, two soldiers arrest me, and take my surviving family members away from me I am told that delinquency is not tolerated in Arstotzka I am thrown in jail until I can pay my debts I cannot because I am in jail I die in jail  Such is life in Arstotzka","hours":2.6}
{"funny_percent":1.75,"helpful_percent":0.8718659485164972,"review":">Another day at border point >EZIC agent comes into booth >He leaves poison >I shoot EZIC agent as he leaves >Guards drag body out of way of entrants >Filthy Kolechian walks in >Must find something to deny scum >Find nothing wrong with papers >I cry silently in the back >I get an idea >I let the filth pass >I used the EZIC poison on passport >Another Kolechian removed >I am hailed as hero by guards and Arstotzkans in the line >I admit a foreigner >I get sent to gulag because I didn't notice it said \"Svyatoslavovich\" on one document and \"svyatoslavovich\" on another >Glory to Arstotzka  10/10 would stamp papers for the motherland again.","hours":9.4}
{"funny_percent":1,"helpful_percent":0.9506720387836614,"review":"I've killed off most of my family to minimize expenses on food. I've separated families just to mantain a perfect score. I've detained pepole desperately trying to enter my country just to make more money. I've unveiled a conspiracy trying to overthrow a tyranical goverment. I've let a criminal pass and murder woman becaouse he had valid documents. And all that for dirt poor wages, terrible living conditions and living under a regime. 10/10 Glory to Arstotzka","hours":7.6}
{"funny_percent":0.14757709251101322,"helpful_percent":0.7831152905732904,"review":"\"Ideas are more powerful than guns. We would not let our enemies have guns, why should we let them have ideas?\" - Joseph Stalin  Congratulations! You've won the lottery and earned the \"right\" to become a nameless, faceless little bureaucrat who is responsible from the border station of a fictional socialist country in 1980s, alongside countless entrants and their tons of paperwork. Glory to Arstotzka!  Before describing any kind of gameplay, I'd like to warn you: Papers, Please is a highly political satire that parodies Stalin's Russia, or any oppressive totalitarian regime in human history. The humor of the game is comedy noir: cold, immediate and careless with an appropriate dose of existentialism, presenting some genuine examples of your good old-fashioned political dystopia. If you like your sarcasm served cold, and patient enough to go through a simulation of routine banality to observe a comment on the dynamics of government, keep reading. The game manages to set the mood for it perfectly.  Papers, Please doesn't even closely resemble any game that I've played so far. It is a basic simulation that lets you try and decide whomever is eligible to enter the country, and whomever is not. And guess what? The rules change daily, always getting more and more complicated until the point you cannot possibly \"not\" hate the government. Endless political conflicts between the government, the neighboring countries and terrorist groups that are ever present don't make things easier or even safer. You live, work and try to earn enough to feed your family, but life is impossible for the honest as always. So things start to get interesting both financially and politically for our bureaucrat as the scenario progresses.  The game has 20 or so ending, which presents huge replayability and contains some hidden achievements to hunt for. As a plus, the game takes each save file for each day separately, so it is real easy to load a specific day and replay for the achievement or ending needed.  As the last call: I really liked the game, and probably gonna try to achievement hunt for a while. I advise the game for the curious, the bitter and the know-it-all. The graphic lovers won't find anything satisfactory though.  Please also check out Lady Storyteller's Curator page here - follow for regular updates on reviews for other games!","hours":16.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9427994380835735,"review":"WOW what a game. I will admit I was so hesitant to buy this game because I judged it by its looks and the little gameplay it looked like it had. Boy I would have made the biggest mistake of my gaming life. Its hard for me to describe what makes this game my Game of the Year, and one of my favourite games of all time, but I can say you most certainly not be dissopointed. Its got humor, saddness, happieness, and its all by your decisions. As a border checkpoint worker you decide the fate of civilians, immigrants, even your family. All these choices and how good you do your job is a real challenge especially further into the game. Now im only speaking for myself how great this game is, but it simply must be experienced. And for it to be created by only one person Lucas Pope is incredible.  Glory to Arstotzka","hours":22.9}
{"funny_percent":0.12087912087912088,"helpful_percent":0.7431652765461614,"review":"You're working in the booth one day, and you receive a note. The note tells you that there's a serial killer in line today, and that he's killed a man's son. That man is line behind him. The note implores you to let this killer into the country, so that the man can find him and take revenge for his son. Or, you can detain the killer and have him taken by the police.  However, on top of all this, you have a sick family at home. Your own son is very ill and you need money for food and medicine. You could be seriously penalized for letting EITHER of these men through if they don't have proper paperwork. Hell, do you even know if the man will be able to CATCH this killer? What if he fails? You'll have let a murderer walk freely into the country.  You have to make a decision quickly because any time you waste means less money for your family.  This is the kind of scenario you deal with in this game. At first it feels like just the bleak observational game where you just look at paperwork and allow/deny access. But as the game goes on, you'll be presented with these moral quandries that really test you. Any decision you make, be it morally good or bad, saintly or selfish, could have a range of consequences. Which winds up making the game incredibly curious and makes you want to keep going to see what happens.","hours":8.8}
{"funny_percent":0.7307692307692307,"helpful_percent":0.9551492623357491,"review":"\"You have been selected for a random search.Turn towards the scanner\" *Disclaimer. Random searches are not so random, you Kolechian scumbag  + One of the most simple, yet atmospheric games ever concived. + Masterful attention to small details that suck you in + Brilliant puzzle, enormous challenge + Great Lore. Glorious characters. + Extremely grim, can put off some people +/- \"Emotional\" Choices / Story choices are a mixed bag,(Some are way too easy to spot or little to notice but both are troublesom anyways depeding on you ) altho they lead to many endings that add replayability. - Repetitive as HELL (altho part of the concept    GloryToArstozka/10","hours":11.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.724167028987379,"review":"Papers, Please is one unique snowflake in the massive ammount of Indie Games that is turning up lately on Steam. If you get to pick one Indie game to play, make it this one.  While playing it you will not only be confronted with moral dilemmas and unexpected inspections, you might also be encouraged to think about oppressive regimes and what they mean for the people that have to live in them. Bonus points to you if you start pondering about what a state should do for its citizens and what not.  And even if you are unable to grasp the deeper facettes of this game, you will have still a great time stamping \"Denied\" or \"Approved\" into Visa markings.  The game gets more and more complex the longer you play it. Discovering all the endings and unlocking Achievements also add to the fun. I also enjoyed the music in this game, its suprisingly nice.  You should plan your next holiday in Arstotzka, make sure you get your Papers in time.  Glory to Arstotzka! .","hours":18}
{"funny_percent":0.17647058823529413,"helpful_percent":0.9275780127580956,"review":"The game really puts you in the right mindset once you've got the hang of it. The way it controls, with the dialog, the items, the choices, you really feel like you're there at a desk, sighing before starting work and sighing at peoples pointless chatter and sigh at peoples obviously wrong documents, 'I'm just doing my job here, you're wasting my time with that out of date passport'. In that way, it's a very realistic job simulator.  And later, you start to feel the importance of your work. It is not just stamping documents, It is determining peoples future, the safety of those you work with and your country, secret agencies.. And your family. Which, if you suck, will die much like Oregon Trail. It has a very organic measure of how well you're doing and how.  And all of that, mixed with the plotlines, the worry behind every decision, constantly balacing on a knifes' edge, the moments you need to pull the trigger, the sense of dissappointment if you miss a crucial detail and it ends up costing peoples lifes.. Makes it very fun. Or, something.  It is something. try it out","hours":8.1}
{"funny_percent":4.32258064516129,"helpful_percent":0.9209356279956138,"review":"Man bribes me to get in with a digital watch. It's a precious family heirloom. He also gives me money. Take both and have him arrested.  10/10 Glory to Arstotzka.","hours":25.2}
{"funny_percent":1.2142857142857142,"helpful_percent":0.7419217768624687,"review":"The sound of that citation printer will give you PTSD.  11/10","hours":3.5}
{"funny_percent":3.21,"helpful_percent":0.7614651734811215,"review":"Man comes up And gives me passport only. man: I dont have all papers, but I can come back in 3 days, ill give you five bucks and this watch to approve my entry me: *takes watch and money, denies entry*  Man: What? Bull! give me my watch back at least. me: *Doesnt give watch back*  man: im not leaving without watch! Me: *detains man. sells watch on way home* me: *doesnt pay for heating or food for family* me: Glory to Arstotzka  11/10 would deny again","hours":12.2}
{"funny_percent":0.05084745762711865,"helpful_percent":0.7387156467121044,"review":"It's not as flashy as some 3D games, but it's beautiful. It isn't as loud as other games, but it's sensational. It's not as verbose as other story-focused games, yet it's very emotional, and managed to tell a story through your actions. Who knew that taking on the role of an immigration inspector could be so nerve-wracking, yet so rewarding at the same time. You just spend your time behind the desk; you approve or deny visas, and wish that at the end of the day, you've got enough money to feed your family some bread.  With your role as an inspector, you get to choose the fate of the immigrants and the country. People desperately want to get inside, and they'll do absolutely anything for an approval. Sometimes, more extreme solutions come into the minds of people, and they'll just climb over the border to be shot by guards. If you fail your duties, the country temporarily goes into a state of disarray, and employs tighter security measures which makes your job harder. A harder job means more papers. More papers means more time observing discrepancies. More time observing discrepancies means that the immigration line moves slower - and a slow line doesn't pay the bills. Don't be surprised if, by the end of the day, your family died of hunger just because you didn't work harder for the country.  It's very interesting to see how something so minimal, could be so powerful. The player works a mere desk job, yet becomes judge and protector of this fictional country. You connect entrants with their loved ones; you give immigrants better lives; you give people a new start - all with a single stamp. It's storytelling at one of its finest moments, and Papers, Please showed what the medium is truly capable of.    And there you have it.","hours":28.2}
{"funny_percent":0.08771929824561403,"helpful_percent":0.9118555208627365,"review":"At first I wrote a silly review because this game just struck me as a silly throw back that's addicting yet worth the money. Now after having logging more hours I feel obligated to leave a more accurate and in-depth review:  This game really ♥♥♥♥ed me up emotionally - and I mean that in a good way. For me it's really rare when media (book, movies, games, whatever) really leaves any lasting impact for more than a few hours however I found myself simply dwelling on Papers Please at idle times days afterwards. The game has a really transforming effect much more powerful than you would ever expect especially given the media it’s presented by and the presentation style itself. In spite of being a pixilated arcade style game, once you get into it – you lose yourself.  I found myself really filling out the role like so few games have had me doing. It’s so easy to succumb to mind numbing bureaucracy and transform into a robot: after a while you’re not even reading the dialogue or looking at people other than to match their faces with their pictures similar to T-800 terminator. Similarly you can lost in people’s stories as they shuffle past you wanting so desperately to help people or do some good (greater good or for personal gain) but being constantly bound by government regulations and your need to support your family and not be sent to the Gulags. Yet still it’s you can find yourself invigorated with power wanting either to obstruct and detain people out of spite or rather allow key players to operate and undermine the very bureaucracy employing you.  Than you stop and go to the bathroom or take a phone call and realize you are playing a videogame with a fairly simple midi-style sound track and SNES era graphics. Nonetheless 2 days later on your lunch break you can’t help but wonder what would have happened if you had let that one revolutionist through, or your bosses lover, or denied that one terrorist, and you have to play again to find out.  All in all the game has 20 endings. It seems like a lot but I wish there were 100. A proper run though can take you anywhere from maybe 3-10 hours. It’s extremely addicting in my opinion not because of (rather in spite of) the amazingly retro arcade play style – rather because of how engrossing and thoroughly intriguing the characters and setting are.  Hey dev, I want more!  ************************************old review below*********************************** This game is an exercise in fury. I have never been so ♥♥♥♥ing annoyed. Why am I still playing. Oh god I'm still playing! Why can't I stop playing!?","hours":30.1}
{"funny_percent":0.01680672268907563,"helpful_percent":0.9605736124725689,"review":"Welcome to Arstotzka, a country that has recently opened its border after a war with Kolechia and thanks to the labor lottery, you are the newest immigration inspector in this tumultuous region. Bluntly stated, 'Papers, Please' is a job simulator that has you checking for discrepancies between information. You'll look over permits, IDs and passports. Reading to what the people say vs what is in the information. After you look over everything, you will either approve or deny them. If you find anything questionable, you can have the game check for dependencies, by clicking on two specific things, such as their photo doesn't match their face and then ask them about it. Later in the game, you will unlock things such as searching people and finger printing them.  Each day will have a new issue that you need to check for. Another layer that you look for. The game first starts out by only letting your own citizens back into your country. Then opening the borders to everyone with a ticket, then people need a permit, then a work permit for those working and an ID for your own citizens. You'll see the issuing city that you'll need to check your rulebook to see if its really an issuing city, a gender that you'll get to search their gender even if it looks like a woman, they could be a man, detain people with contraband, question identities and fingerprint them, look at the date of entry vs the expiration date of their passport, look at when their work permit says they'll leave vs how long they told you they'll be in the country vs what they told you. Eventually, forgeries will happen that will force you to see correct official seals are there. It is a lot of information you need to look over.  The major controls are just mouse clicks and drags. You have a rulebook that you can click and drag onto your desk. All information you are given from people needs to be click and dragged into your work desk to look over. Then approving or denying requires you to click to take out your stampers, then move the passport into place and click the approve or deny, then give everything back to the person, by clicking and dragging it back to them. Once you've approved or denied them, then its time to click the speaker to call up the next person in line. Its a very click heavy game, but as time goes on you can purchase booth upgrades that lets you click space or tab to call up things you'd normally just click and drag.  Each person that you process earns you $5. If you make mistakes and approve or deny someone that you shouldn't you will receive no penalty the first two or three times. After that, you start losing $5. Why does money matter? You have 4 people at home with you, your wife, your son, your mother in law and your uncle. You spend money on rent, heat, food and medicine. If you don't have enough money you have to start sacrificing things. If you don't have heat, your family will start getting sick and need medicine. If you don't have food, eventually your family will die. When your family dies its game over. You need to be both thorough and efficient in the game, because you only have so much time in a day. Some days get stopped short with unavoidable terrorist attacks and bombings that cause new rules such as searching every Kolechian.  There are other game over states, like doing something incorrect in front of the wrong person. If you get a game over, you can restart from any previous day. This makes the game pretty forgiving.   As the days go on, a stories will unfold and you'll be responsible for the course of mini stories. You'll meet interesting characters such as diplomats, soldiers with bribes, inspectors, angry people cursing you out, human trafficers, secret agents, mysterious men.  In all, this is a very unique game if not job simulator with a good story, good art style and music that matches the game and back story. I can understand if this game isn't for everyone, but if you can get into it, Papers, Please will keep your attention in a lot of ways. Once you get endless mode unlocked, you have 3 categories: timed, perfect and endless complete with leader boards.","hours":4.4}
{"funny_percent":0.02702702702702703,"helpful_percent":0.9649000056139183,"review":"Depending on how things are going, Papers Please is either a simulation of that moment that a cog in the machine’s heart finally stops beating, or a kind of hidden object game where what you’re mostly looking for is a glimmer of hope. You’re not a bad person. You’re simply an immigration official doing your job, manning the thin grey line between Kolechia and Arstotzka in the face of a seemingly endless stream of suicide bombers and smugglers and of course parasites seeking to suck upon (what the propaganda insists are) Arstotzka’s most bountiful of teats. Show your passport when ordered. Pay no attention to the sea of desolation all around. Glory to Arstotzka, or else.  There’s more to Papers Please than just spotting a mismatched date or a missing access pass, though it’s impressive how satisfying even those simple slices of detective work can be. There’s a real tactility to handling the documents handed over by each person who arrives at the booth in the hope of work, a new life, or simply going home; of shuffling them around what passes for your desk to double-check names and details and make sure the name on someone’s work visa matches the one on their passport. The limited space and even more limited colour palette make the job feel oppressive but not actively unpleasant, with the ka-chunk finality of the DENIED or APPROVED stamp providing a shortcut straight into the brain of a terminal jobsworth. It’s your little scrap of power, for crushing the fools who would dare insult Arstotzka’s finest, or gracing an occasional sob story with administrative pity.  Time and again, the details make the experience so much more than it might have been. The limited space for paperwork, for instance, soon ends up being a major liability, with documents piled on top of documents and key information not always on hand. That could have been annoying. Instead, it’s part of why spotting mistakes feels more than simply playing Spot The Difference or running through a checklist – the slow mental accretion of things like town names and standard traps becoming a learned skill that allows for ever more efficiency. A wrong name, spotted! The wrong stamp, denied! A bomb, discovered! Reaching for the approval stamp can even start to feel like an admission of defeat, at least until a citation for failure actively doesn’t pop up to be a mark of shame.  Avoiding spoilers, the story mode also offers more than just random paperwork over its month-long run. There are moral decisions, like whether to separate a husband and wife whose paperwork doesn’t match, or play white knight and turn a pimp away before he can get his hands on a girl who claims he tricked her over the border. The right answer may seem obvious, but every penalty that costs money means less food, heat, and medicine for the family back home – a family that has to stay alive, if only because the Ministry of Admission has no time for a slacker who can’t provide for one. Later, things get a good deal more dangerous thanks to both local and foreign threats, bribery, corruption, and the chance to use and abuse your stamps and other powers for variably worthwhile causes.  It’s not a deep plot by any means, but it ties in perfectly with the bleakness and adds an edge to what could so easily have gotten bland. The only downside is that the heavy scripting makes repeating days to chase different endings or simply scrape together enough money to survive feel instantly repetitive. A shorter, more variable campaign with scope to tell more stories, set up more conflicts between factions, and reach a resolution in a comfortable single sitting also might have worked better – FTL kept coming to mind. Certainly, staring at the greyness until both eyes start dripping disgusting eye-juice is a bad idea, though in a way that does admittedly feel appropriate. We’re only dealing with a maybe here though, and first time through, at least, the campaign is long enough to fully experiment with its concepts without outstaying its welcome. It’s just not very conducive to going back and chasing alternate endings.  After the story is over (or earlier, by sneakily Googling a code), there’s also an Endless version to play. This is less enjoyable simply because it actually is all about the job, now recast as Timed, Endurance and Perfection (no mistakes) mode and it becomes more of a game. In Story Mode, it’s easy to see the people you deal with as people, even as the institutional style pretends it’s training you not to. Here, they’re openly random numbers with faces, and the lack of a bigger picture instantly turns the vibe from intrigue to raw data processing. It’s a worthy bonus addition to Papers, Please, but one that’s not likely to have anyone rush out and call US Border Protection for an application form. Should that inspiration strike though, you should definitely put any high scores under “previous experience.”  Papers Please is a fantastic idea, beautifully executed. On the surface, stamping passports is the dullest job in the world. Wrapped up in Cold War chic though, it’s more than that from the start, with enough personality soon emerging from the greyness to keep it interesting even after foiling the hundredth attempt to sneak something nasty across the border. It’s not necessarily \"fun,\" especially as you watch your family wither and die in the name of efficient immigration control, but it’s certainly compelling. Very few other games have so perfectly encapsulated just how being trapped in this kind of dehumanising role can be, in the best possible way, and both inside and out of the dreaded grey booth. If only there could be an achievement for reaching the exact moment you turn someone away for no particularly good reason, only to quietly tell yourself that, as ever, you were just following orders.","hours":3.2}
{"funny_percent":1.8333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.835670828244648,"review":"-PAPERS PLEASE! -There you go... -You are Kolechian? -Yes? -CONGRATULATIONS! -I get in? -Of course not.","hours":7.2}
{"funny_percent":2.26,"helpful_percent":0.8562505118276861,"review":"\"Papers, please.\"  *Man hands me documents*  *They are clearly fake, drawn in crayons.*  \"Welcome to Arstoska.\"","hours":2.8}
{"funny_percent":2.946969696969697,"helpful_percent":0.7617140136309957,"review":"•Gets order to give any information about certain group. •Gives information about group. •Gets arrested for having information about group.  Glory to Arstotzka.","hours":14.7}
{"funny_percent":0.9349775784753364,"helpful_percent":0.9646508260242224,"review":"Two years ago I was detained on my way into America. I was taken away from the line, seperated from my passport and dumped in a bleak empty room filled with lines of chairs and people in various states of distress. Nobody told me what was happening. Occasionally an agent would appear at the back of the room and give passports to some of the people waiting, who left quickly and quietly. At one point an elderly man went up to the desk and begged to be let through, to be met with ice-cold condescension.  After about half an hour I was called through into the back room. There I was told to sit down in front of a man called Keane, on a desk filled with papers. Keane never looked at me. He asked where I was going and why I was going there. When I said I was visiting my girlfriend he leered and asked me if it was \"true love\". When I asked him whether I'd been pulled out of the line for a reason or if it was a random check, he told me it \"wasn't random\". When I asked him if I would make my flight in 20 minutes, he told me that it depended how fast I could run.  Eventually Keane gave me my passport back and told me to \"lift my heels up\". I missed my flight by minutes. I waited for an hour for the next flight and then another hour on the plane for it to take off.  This game made me feel sorry for Keane.  10/10, would feel empathy against my will again","hours":17.2}
{"funny_percent":0.02132701421800948,"helpful_percent":0.7812096257809635,"review":"Well first off let me start by saying Kolechians might be reading this review, if you are, please seek the nearest police officer and turn yourself in for being a terrorist. That being said, I'm very proud to have the Ministry of Admission let me review this amazing and impeccable game. The graphics are amazing, lifelike even! The controls are fantastic, you can really feel the despair joy in your character's eyes as you march to work and fufill your duty to glorious Arstotzka. I've never seen such a game before. If you can afford this game with the MoA's meager generous paycheck, I'd say pick up this gem.","hours":3}
{"funny_percent":0.028985507246376812,"helpful_percent":0.7928661248485888,"review":"A concept that is basically running immigration for an eastern-bloc country during the cold war. Sounds boring as hell, right? So deceitful it is then, because few things are more addicting. While playing, I kept finding myself thinking \"Just one more day, one more then off to bed\". Five hours later, it's 5AM and I'm due at work in three hours. No regrets here, either. The gameplay is simple but deep, and the story branches like a visual novel. Plus it's the only game I've ever played to truly make me actually feel -BAD- for doing what the game tells me to. Video game history teaches us that morality is black and white. Papers reveals how evoke it with more gray area than I ever thought a game could, and it's crazy how easily it does so.  There's a reason this game was voted GoTY by so many publications, and touted as simply amazing by gamers far and wide. Quirky, fun, addictive - you owe it to yourself to play this gem. GLORY TO ARSTOTZKA!","hours":7.4}
{"funny_percent":1.147914032869785,"helpful_percent":0.8116991374642759,"review":"\"Papers, please.\"   *man hands me poorly drawn picture of himself*   \"Sir thats not a valid passport\"   Man: \"ok that fine I come back later\"   *comes back the next day with name scribbled below picture*  ...  11/10","hours":6.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8044781638804781,"review":"This game is really original, every decision with every person about the Passports can affect you in some way as you progress the days in your game and this game can be hard, so if you buy the game you must pay atention with all documents and rules to become the best Inspector.","hours":15.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9520637967175574,"review":"The gameplay is border control tedious paperwork. Verifying if different entries are coherent, checking for frauds or typos, asking people to provide more information. And then deciding if you let them through or not.  I have very little empathy to pixels, so I thought this was going to be easy. I would just accept people whose papers are fine, and then refuse people whose papers are not right even if they are dying and need an organ transplant.  But then the game got to me. There is so much more going on than just the little story of the person that comes to meet you. One person will tell you about another. Will give you something for another. Will try to bribe you, and you need the money to keep your own family afloat. There are events going on in the game's world, and it is subtly told through short sequences or short news reports. I have to give a file to a spy. Someone else comes, and tells me that he is also a spy, and the next person looking for the file is a bad guy. He gives me another file so I can switch for the fake. Which file do I choose to give, who do I trust?  And then I start to care. A girl tells me that her abusive boyfriend that beats her up and might end up killing her is coming. His papers are alright, but I still refuse to let him enter, and get a salary sanction for my decision. The game won, I was not just proceeding as if they were pixels and I started to make moral choices and get invested in my role.  This game is not exactly \"fun\", but it is Art and worth trying to anyone that wants to see maturity in the video games medium. Very original, meaningful, and really well crafted.","hours":4.9}
{"funny_percent":0.06666666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.9018116918611492,"review":"I just finished Papers, Please a few minutes ago, and it's left quite an impact. For a game made by a single guy, this is outstanding work. The concept of having to face a constant struggle of economic issues, terrorism, forgery, and even keeping your family healthy and well fed is innovative, and it keeps the GOOD bit of Pheonix Wright.   The world of Papers, Please is absorbing, and makes you feel as if you are genuinely affecting the lives of the peopl who you Deny, and Accept. There were many, many moments in Papers, Please where I was conflicted on whether to Accept or Deny someones Passport, as sometimes it would essentially ruin their entire life if you denied it, or accepted it.   Although I do adore this game, if you're not quick with your fingers, I personally wouldn't reccomend it. The game, from my playthrough, requires fast movements and a keen eye, as some of the \"forgery\" is just a single letter in a name, or an extra +3 to the weight of the passport holder. If however, you're looking for a fun, innovative and absorbing game, buy Papers, Please. You will not regret it.","hours":6}
{"funny_percent":0.04950495049504951,"helpful_percent":0.7834427153701282,"review":"A girl came to me, while she gave me the passport, she passed me the little note while entering the border, said she been taken here for a work by some guy in the line after her, and she afraid that she will be end up in brothel and might get kill if she not be here, and want me to help her.   I feel so sad for her and so mad to a guy that she been talking about, some moment later, a guy came to me with a big smile, passed me a paper and also his poster to the sex club, and told me to pay a visit, which I think this is the guy that she told me, but his paper and document are all valid and can entering the border with no problem.... I decided to gave him denied, and unable to get in to help that girl, but with that decision, the government demand me to pay the penatly with the money that could help my son while he sick... What if I let him in, so I could help my son, but the girl that I don't know could lose her life?  These are the tension and pressure that always happen in this litle game, you be a kind person and let lose a wife without the right paper in after her husband? or be a person to make sure everything must be right so no threat happen to your country and people? everything had a consequence, will you follow the order or follow your own decision? but always remember that you are in the government hand and so your family.  This is one of the best indie point and click game, it is fun and brilliant, it had a deep story and event, tension, and a little political decision in it which you can be easily addictive to this game while make you feel like you really been there doing the Immigration work and take that responsibility, the country is in your hand. Glory to Arstotska! :P","hours":11.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9369977694851014,"review":"My opinion: Papers, Please was a game I really enjoyed, but is definitely not for everyone.  These types of games really captivate me, and when it was announced I was really intrigued. I love games that go beyond today's formula, game's that seek to push and explore new boundaries, even if they might fail. This game is certainly one of them.  But that same thing also hurts it, and some people might find this incredibly boring. You play as an immigration officer at a checkpoint in a fictional communist state, and you process people entering the country. As you can imagine, immigration officers don't have the most exciting job. It consists of checking to make sure their passports and papers are authentic, and if so, admitting them into the country. The gameplay is virtually the same throughout the game, but somehow it manages to captivate me, and clearly tons of others as well.  The gameplay, as I said before, is largely the same. In fact, it's almost entirely scripted for the most part. On day three a certain event happens, on day eleven another does, and there's no changing it. Despite that, however, there is still an incredible chance for a diverse experience. In fact, Papers, Please has 20 endings, each occurs as a result of you doing things a certain way, and there are still a lot of choices in this linear story. One thing I really enjoyed is how the game allows you to explore all those options. The game is set to have 31 days of work (there is an endless mode for those who complete the story) and once complete a day, you are allowed to start a semi-new game from that day and make a different decision. When each day takes around 15 minutes to complete, this was a brilliant addition that removed monotonous repeats that would've made me lose interest in a flash.  Want to continue reading for a more in depth review? Head over to my website to continue and to find much other stuff! {LINK REMOVED}","hours":4.2}
{"funny_percent":1.86,"helpful_percent":0.817506991342201,"review":"Played with a mate while drinking. Made a replica rule book on scrap piece of paper to process faster. Reached 18 Checks in one day. Realised East/West Grestin = East/West Germany. Played as fascists. Son is sick far too often. Did not pay for his medication. Died on his birthday. Had enough money for level 5 apartment.  10/10 Glory to Arstotska.","hours":15.1}
{"funny_percent":0.07111111111111111,"helpful_percent":0.8818343162871201,"review":"Papers, Please is a puzzle, simulation game focused on the emotional task of working as an immigration officers, deciding who you let in and who you deny entry of. The game is based in a fictional country called Arstotzka.   The game play focuses around the work life of an immigration inspect at a boarder checkpoint. Players will inspect documents and using a selection of different tools to work out whether the papers meet all of the criteria to warrant access to crossing the boarder. When you do find a problem with the paper work presented to you, there is also the option to interrogate the applicant, which may result in the need for further information such as a full body scan or finger printers. Once you have worked out all of the paper work and questions being asked, you have to make a choice whether to Accept or deny entry, and then call the next person in line. Only then are you told any mistakes that you have made in the form of a warning slip.  On top of wading your way through all the paper work, you also have a time limit for the day in which you have to process as many applicants as possible. At the end of each working shift, you will earn money based on how many people have been processed, bribes collected, as well as deductions for any penalties you accrued. Then you must decided how to spend this money with your families budget, spending it on rent, food, heat and other necessities such as medicine or upgrades to your working environment.   Paper, Please has a very prominent sound track, which starts as a slow marching rhythm made by bass to represent flow of entrants in the line of applicants and how tired and depressed they are. Although the technical side of the music is basic, it is probably one of the most memorable soundtracks you will hear from a game.   The game is only as difficult as you make it; if you pay attention to every little detail, you shouldn't fail. Only if you missing key bits of information or just not paying attention in general will your warnings pile up, and you will start to get less and less money, which results in your bills not being paid, which then results in having to start all over.   The game took me a little over twenty hours to complete one run, there is just a huge amount of content to go through, although some of the applicants are scripted such as terrorists or smugglers, along with plot characters, a lot of the others are randomly generated which means no run should ever be the same.   Technically, I had no issues what so ever. It's a very technically simple game which can be played in Windows mode without problems either.  Papers, Please will certainly not be for everybody, but if you want to try something different from the regular shooting and spell casting games we are drowning in today, pick this up. I got over twenty hours of game play out of this awesome £6,99 title.   Glory to Arstotzka!   If you found this review helpful, please consider giving it a thumbs up. You can also find more reviews over at http://www.completingthebackloggroup.com/  ","hours":23.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9433265540224209,"review":"Product received for free  Papers, Please is a very unique indie game made by one talented man named Lucas Pope. It's a great game that will make you happy, sad, and make you feel heartless and dreadful. It's a bit addicting, and a must-own for anyone looking for a challanging game. It is worth your money, and I recommend everyone to play this game!  The game revolves around you. You were selected from the October labor lottery to become the border patrol officer at the Grestin Border Checkpoint at Arstotzka. Everyone that arrives at your counter must present all documentation, and it is your job to validate it. You must check everything, including obvious things like matching pictures, names, and ID numbers, to very precise things like their height and weight. There's many reasons to deny people, ranging from expired and missing documents, to new rules in your rulebook. You can also arrest and detain people for things such as forged documents, attempting to smuggle contraband or weapons into Arstotzka, or their face being on the most wanted criminals list. Your job is very important, and you must take it very seriously to keep Arstotzka safe.  One thing that I find amazing is the different ways you can play this game. Will you play the strict officer that abides by the book to keep his job intact and will deny anyone that doesn't follow procedures, which include denying people desperately running for their lives? Will you play the heartful officer that will let these people in to save their lives, and help everyone that requests legal help, despite going against protocal? Will you play the corrupt officer that assists criminal organizations and breaks promises you made to put more money in your pocket? There's likely more ways to play Papers Please, but these are the ones I came up with. I played my first playthrough as a mix between the strict officer and the heartful officer, abiding by the book strictly but giving exceptions to a few people that I showed compassion to, and I plan to play the corrupt officer in my next playthrough.  Positives Heavy atmosphere. You work in a world corrupted with war, sickness, and crime, and you must deal with this as you play. Great pixel graphics. They're very well done, and help the heavy atmosphere through the color palette. So many faces. I've never seen two of the same people during my time at the border (unless you want to count the same person coming up to the window multiple times). It shows how much work the developer has put into this game. Money budgeting system. You must budget the low income you make to keep your family healthy and well fed. Different ways to play. This was discussed in great detail earlier in the review. Great layout. Despite being a 2D game, the developer laid everything out greatly, and it just works flawlessly. Personal skills you must develop. To be an efficient border patrol officer, you must develop a strong work ethic, espeically late in the game. Develop habits to check certain things, and develop a pattern of verification you follow for every man or woman that walks up to your counter. Lay out the documentation efficiently so you can see all of it clearly. Evolving gameplay. Throughout the game, you'll start to get new documentation to check, making the game fresh, but making your job harder. This eliminates quite a bit of repetitiveness.  Endless Mode. This mode is unlocked after you completed the game without losing your job. It is customizable, with options to change what documents the citizens are required to bring, along with how you want to play the mode. This is a good way to play the game after you completed the main story.  Negatives Overlooked annoyances. One thing that frustrated me in the late game is a point where you have to confiscate passports from a certain group of people. Some of these people included people that I detained. Despite that, I would get fined for not confiscating the passports, even though the guards took the documentation with them along with the detained man or woman, which is them basically confiscating it. To avoid this, you must confiscate their passport into your drawer before calling the guards over to detain the man or woman. It was frustrating and it was a massive pet peeve of mine as it didn't make much sense to me. Story Mode has low replayabilty. It's the same story with the same characters and the same lines. It's not that enjoyable to replay after you beat it once, especially right after. You might just need a break from the Story Mode before coming back.  Summary Papers, Please is a fantastic indie game that must be played by everyone that wants a challange. It's a joy to play, and is one of the most unique and interesting games I have ever played.  Glory to Arstotzka!","hours":5.6}
{"funny_percent":0.2857142857142857,"helpful_percent":0.846456236851655,"review":"\"Papers, please.\" [See a discrepancy] [Ask to the owner of the papers] \"That is new to me.\" \"Denied!\" * pop * [Person goes away] \"NEXT!\"  Papers, Please is the one of the best game I've ever played. You and your family are moving to Arstotzka, a fictional country in the east Europe, and you are responsible for monitoring the border.  With the 'simple' premisse to verify fake passports, you must to be attentive, any miss and you will be notified and after two notifications, the next will be deducted from your paycheck. Still, you need to pay the bills, like the house rent, heating, food for your family and, if necessary, medicines.  The best part of the game is the immersion, you feel like you are in the game. At any time, a unexpected event can happen and you must to do something - will you let pass a woman that, if she returns to her home country, she will die? Or how you react if a misterious guy needs your help? The game has several endings. Any choice that you do, it will influence throughout the history.  Papers, Please is a unique and indispensable game.","hours":19.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8101173505854793,"review":"Papers Please is just awesome. It's a game where you play an immigration inspector. No, that's not meant sarcastically. I know it sounds dull, but let me tell you that it is absolutely not. It's challenging and interesting, even if the game lasts just a few hours.   With every level you play new challenges are unlocked and near the end of the game you have to take into consideration the many aspects of an inspection.  There are many moral choices to be made and in total there are 20 endings so there's also more than enough replayabily. An endless mode is also included so this game is neverending. You could play this game your whole life and not get bored. Ok, maybe after a few years you'd get bored, but theoretically you could just go on and on.  The graphics have a retro Russian vibe that really impressed me. And the soundtrack isn't very long, but what's there is very good. The song that was played during the credits was actually great.  In the end Papers Please was a delight to play. If only more games had gameplay this fun and an idea this original. Get this as soon as you have some money.  Glory to Arstotzka !  [Rating: 90/100]","hours":9.6}
{"funny_percent":0.04878048780487805,"helpful_percent":0.9440353172766482,"review":"Papers, Please may be my favorite indie game ever made. I love it so much that I've tried to play it in Russian just for the added challenge twice . Truly wonderful example of how game design can be implemented to not only make scouring paperwork interesting, but making the player hang on every word spoken by the NPCs.  Beautiful art, crushing atmosphere, and great writing that makes misery, fun.  10/10","hours":17.5}
{"funny_percent":0.37777777777777777,"helpful_percent":0.9622320450865451,"review":"Product received for free  ᴅᴇᴀʀ ɪɴsᴘᴇᴄᴛᴏʀ,  ʏᴏᴜ ᴍɪɢʜᴛ ᴛʜɪɴᴋ ᴛʜᴀᴛ ᴀ ɢᴀᴍᴇ ᴀʙᴏᴜᴛ ᴘᴀssᴘᴏʀᴛ ᴄᴏɴᴛʀᴏʟ ᴡᴏᴜʟᴅ ʙᴇ ᴀ ʙᴏʀɪɴɢ, ᴏʙɴᴏxɪᴏᴜs ғᴇᴀᴛ. ʙᴜᴛ ᴛʜɪs ɢᴀᴍᴇ ᴍᴀᴋᴇs ɪᴛ ᴍᴏʀᴇ ᴛʜᴀɴ ғᴜɴ. ᴛʜᴇʀᴇ's ᴀ sᴛᴏʀʏ ᴀɴᴅ 20+ ᴇɴᴅɪɴɢs ᴛᴏ ɢᴇᴛ, ᴀs ᴡᴇʟʟ ᴀs ᴀᴄʜɪᴇᴠᴇᴍᴇɴᴛs ᴛᴏ ɢᴇᴛ ʏᴏᴜ ᴛᴏ ᴇxᴘᴇʀɪᴇɴᴄᴇ ᴛʜᴇ ᴡʜᴏʟᴇ ɢᴀᴍᴇ ɪɴ ɪᴛs ᴇxᴄᴇʟʟᴇɴᴄʏ.  ᴛʜᴇ ɢᴀᴍᴇ ᴏɴʟʏ ɢᴇᴛs ʙᴇᴛᴛᴇʀ ᴛʜᴇ ᴍᴏʀᴇ ʏᴏᴜ ʜᴀᴠᴇ ᴛᴏ ʀᴇᴍᴇᴍʙᴇʀ ᴛᴏ ᴄʜᴇᴄᴋ ᴀɴᴅ ɪ'ᴍ ᴘʀᴏᴜᴅ ᴛᴏ sᴀʏ ᴛʜᴀᴛ ɪ ʜᴀᴠᴇ sᴇʀᴠᴇᴅ ᴍʏ ᴅᴜᴛʏ ᴡᴇʟʟ.  ɢʟᴏʀʏ ᴛᴏ ᴀʀsᴛᴏᴢᴋᴀ.","hours":12.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.756874869456624,"review":"Papers, Please is a unique game that has done something only few games have done. it will test your moral compass as close to the limits as possible, it'll test your humanity, trouble solving ability and quick time reactions.  Papers, Please also manages to take something that at first glance would seem a boring task, playing as an immigration inspector in a border checkpoint, to a work of art.  That's a solid 10/10. A must with or without a sale.","hours":30.1}
{"funny_percent":2.3333333333333335,"helpful_percent":0.932383134600665,"review":"I let in a man but sent away his wife. I denied passage for a woman to see her son. I arrested about 50 people.  Rating: 10/10 - Not a single blemish on the face of Arstotzka","hours":25.7}
{"funny_percent":1.1714285714285715,"helpful_percent":0.8795037988166722,"review":"I'm actually enjoying reviewing documents.  what the ♥♥♥♥","hours":15.6}