{"funny_percent":0.06452286489872625,"helpful_percent":0.7087130710941695,"review":"I shall start by saying that if you are deciding to buy this game then don't let the negative reviews sway you. In general, Fallout 4 is an amazing game and can be incredibly fun.  Pros:  -Very immersive and will drain so many hours, days, weeks and months from your life. -Far Harbour, Automotron and (first half of) NukaWorld DLC have really good stories, quests and environments. -Mostly fluid combat system. Everything depends on how you want to play the game.  Cons:  -WIll drain so much of your life away (might've forgotten my gf's birthday ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯ ) -Main story was incredibly lackluster compared to previous Fallout games -Giving you the option to be literally any kind of character you want to be....except you're always tied to being a parent. -a few repitive quests. (although gives you opportunities to approach these quests, areas and enemies differently  All in all, If you're a Fallout fan because of previous stories then you might not feel fulfilled playing this game, however if you love character creations, lore and immersive environments with untold stories then I completely recommend this game to you.","hours":309.5}
{"funny_percent":0.05813953488372093,"helpful_percent":0.7958154261412607,"review":"Greetings: My grandson talked me into trying Fallout 4. I'm an older player (65) who enjoys video games. I am very impressed with the game overall though I do wish I didn't have the CTD's and other issues with the game. But the ability to do the kind of building along with the post war setting has been a lot of fun. Being able to enhance the game through the modding system is very nice as well and gives you more hours of play as you find new things to try. I have spent hours buidling and actually restarted the game now 4 or 5 times trying out different things. I do use quite a few mods and I'm sure the contributes to the CTD's etc in the game. I thing Bethsadia has done a great job presenting this game. I played the original Fallout many years ago. Having learned how to make video's of the gameplay and posting on youtube (mostly for my grandson to see my settlements) has been a nice side benefit of playing fallout. I would recommend the game and using mods...just do all you can to ensure things are loaded correctly.","hours":1466.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8354614048067651,"review":"Fallout 4 is really not a perfect Fallout game by any means. The lack of dialogue options sucks and you don't really feel like your own hero because of that. The story overall was decent for a Fallout game tho especially if you take your time and explore. I understand that people say New Vegas was better even tho the combat was frustrating and the map was not that great. That's where Fallout 4 is really good at. The exploring part is super fun and the combat is really really well made. The settlement building makes that even better. And that's a big part of why i still enjoyed the game. Quite alot. The music, atmosphere and graphics give you that Fallout feeling you love, the weapon arsenal is decent and the skilltree is pretty nice. At least i don't think the old way to skill your character in Fallout games was good. The settlement building is bugged sometimes but it was still awesome to build your very own place in the middle of the wasteland. I also enjoyed Nuka-World and Far Harbor quite alot. I don't think Fallout 4 is a bad game and i think the huge amount of hate over this game was unreasonable. But i understand that there is more potential. Especially for the story. Obsidian did a way better job at this.  The paid mods♥♥♥♥♥♥is disgusting. But i don't dislike because of that. I just ignore every microtransaction like everybody should.","hours":501.2}
{"funny_percent":0.0408880507457569,"helpful_percent":0.9737795208911786,"review":"People have demonstrated consistently since Fallout 4's release how dangerous expectations can be. To expect great things from the game, and to be disappointed when those expectations are not met, is quite normal. When judgement is rendered solely on the result of those expectations, the fatal mistake is made. It in turn leads to a propensity for jumping to conclusions, and from that point it's a rapid descent into ignorance.  Back when Fallout 4 was released, most of the Steam reviews consisted of incoherent, furious ranting that tarnished the whole title after only a few hours worth of gameplay. After being shocked by the overwhelming amount of negativity, I decided to make my own and openly condemned the bad reviews for what they were: baseless and devoid of perspective. It was quite obvious the authors made that fatal mistake, which is unfair to the many developers who put their soul and passion into creating the game.  In the end, Fallout fans will almost assuredly find disappointments with Fallout 4, as did I. But if the ignorance of the older reviews and reception of previous games ought to teach one thing, it's that those disappointments are no excuse for blind judgement or jumping to conclusions. If an opinion is to be rendered of this game in the form of review, let it be guided by reason and supported by logic. It is in the pursuit of that fairness and clarity that I chose to write this review.  ----------------------------------------  Fallout 4 is a deeply enjoyable and well-crafted game. However, it definitely has its issues. Bethesda tried new things in this title, some more ambitious than others, and not all of them were successful.   It's true that dialogue has been watered down as the devs chose to forgo text conversation choices in favor of a voiced and much more simplified dialogue wheel, which is further hampered by boring choices and weak voice work. Character advancements have been combined into a single perk/SPECIAL sheet. Settlement building, while certainly fun, is mostly aesthetic filler that has little impact on the game world. Side quests far too often amount to just killing some mandatory enemies, particularly with the Minutemen (who are supposed to be the \"good guys\" of this installment), and can become repetitive.  My most prominent grievance with Fallout 4 is the dialogue overhaul and removal of the karma system, which was completely unnecessary and not desired by a single player in existence. Unlike the previous flaws, this thoroughly irks me. I realized that this ties in to the primary weakness of Fallout 4: its lack of meaningful dialogue in comparison to most Bethesda titles. Far too often, your dialogue choices are short, shallow, meaningless, or all three.   The only choices that have any outcome are blatantly outlined as persuasion options, a lot of which only help you get some extra caps. It's not that you should be making major decisions all the time; the problem is that you, as a speaking character, now have a voice that carries no power. What you decide to say is almost always inconsequential. The dialogue system is highly reminiscent of Mass Effect except watered down; the reason it doesn't work in Fallout is that the two games have totally different approaches to conversation. The previous Fallout games had much better dialogue options because they meant something. Sometimes, your choice of words just made someone hate you, allowed you to entice or inspire others, or developed your reputation through the karma system. Now that karma is gone, your choices are just that much more pointless.  The bottom line is that Bethesda sacrificed a tremendous amount of RPG dialogue elements to accommodate full voice-work. While it was an ambitious attempt, it was an all-around mistake and it sticks out like a sore if you're a fan of Bethesda games or RPG's in general. The dialogue wheel system could have worked out just fine, but Bethesda carried it out in the wrong way.  ----------------------------------------  All the aforementioned flaws are some of the most central complaints naysayers have about Fallout 4 and yet not a single one of them has been horrific enough to ruin my experience or let me down. Despite the few bugs I've come across, despite the certain questionable and sometimes idiotic design choices Bethesda made here, this game is still extremely well done. I still feel that incomparable thrill that only Fallout can bring.  Even though Fallout 4 falls extremely short on dialogue and all aspects associated with it, it's still an improvement over its predecessors in almost every other way imaginable. The game suffers some graphical issues like muddy textures and poor lighting at times, like any good Bethesda game, but it's still astoundingly beautiful and even breathtaking at times. Movement, melee, gunplay, and physics are better and smoother than they've ever been.   People were quick to judge the Commonwealth map based on its size and I was prepared to be disappointed as well, but it's surprisingly the best one Bethesda has whipped up thus far. The suburban locations are more organically dispersed and things become more compressed as you near the cities. Streets are narrow, buildings are tall, and locations are absolutely jam-packed alongside a ton of unmarked ruins and buildings you can enter. There are hardly any copy-pasted environments and they all show great attention to detail.  I was also worried that granting access to power armor and a minigun within the first thirty minutes of the game would be a huge balancing issue as well, but it really isn’t. Power armor relies on uncommon fusion cores for power and you’re not an unstoppable god while wearing the suit, especially not at higher difficulties or levels. You can acquire some strong weapons like the minigun or Fatman relatively early but finding sufficient ammo is another matter entirely.  ----------------------------------------  Skyrim was a simplification of the Oblivion formula, but it was still a fantastic game. In much the same way, Fallout 4 is a simplification of the Fallout 3/New Vegas formula and is still extremely good. Even in light of its issues, this game has not been a disappointment at all. RPG elements can be enhanced through the wonderful modding community and will eventually make up for some of the game's weaker points, a perk of the PC version. Bethesda has, however, been on a recent trend of simplifying their games too much and I hope they change course.  Truthfully, the negative Steam reviews had me partly worried that I’d be disappointed but I chose to disregard them and arrive at my own opinion. I’ve learned that nearly every point of contention was blown out of context. The few issues that haven’t been redeemed in my eyes still pale in the face of the tremendous work that was done to bring this new and beautiful Fallout world to life. I have no doubt that the naysayers worked up their expectations to heights beyond reason, and it’s therefore no mystery that they hit the ground so hard afterwards. I chose to see Fallout 4 for what it is rather than what I expected or imagined it to be: a lovingly crafted game that, despite being marred by some of its shortcomings, has that same engaging splendor that far supercedes its flaws.  I highly recommend you try the game and approach it with a neutral and reasonable demeanor, and you won’t be disappointed.  ---------------------------------------- EDIT I'm grateful that so many people have found this review helpful and I'd like to thank you all for commenting. I can't reply to everyone's comments but I've certainly read every one of them.  I hope that my review has given you some useful perspective, either good or bad.  EDIT #2 Reworked the intro to be less confrontational, as it was no longer needed. Changed some undesirable sentences.","hours":267.3}
{"funny_percent":0.11219512195121951,"helpful_percent":0.7855479913874721,"review":"Is Fallout 4 a good game? Yes. Yes it is. Is it a good Fallout game? No.","hours":172.4}
{"funny_percent":0.03773584905660377,"helpful_percent":0.8751991162843757,"review":"solid game, not a solid fallout","hours":94.1}
{"funny_percent":0.26666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.960712980698172,"review":"Product received for free  Big Mac or a 4$ retro gauss rifle? But sorry Bethesda I really, really like Big Macs.  与其买4美刀的高斯步枪mod我不如去吃个巨无霸 即使是打赏mod作者我也不会用内购的方式去打赏","hours":153.9}
{"funny_percent":0.047967108268615805,"helpful_percent":0.8036758157201053,"review":"Edit - Dec 4 2015 - Wow this blew up, didn't expect 1000+ ratings. Thanks to everybody who rated it helpful or not and thanks to everybody for commenting. I'll respond to any comments posted here or my profile. I also changed my final score of the game in order to clear up some confusion.  Ok, now that I've got 100 hours exactly on this game, I'm going to do an updated thoughts list. This isn't a full review, just a list of observations.  Pros  - The game is really pretty. Compared to the other two 3D Fallout games, it's quite colorful.   - The FPS part of the game is greatly, greatly improved. The guns feel like they have power. The explosives actually work. Melee feels like Skyrim.   - The story is interesting. Certainly not the best, but it had a few twists and turns I didn't see coming.  - Power armor is quite cool. I think they did this really well. It's more like a vehicle that needs fuel and maintenance unlike the last games where it was just an outfit.  - Crafting. You can create many things including mods for your weapons, armor and power armor. You can also craft medicines and drugs.   - All the clutter is useful. Pick up all the junk.  - I loved the updated looks of the various wasteland creatures. Mirelurks, Super mutants, deathclaws etc.  - Common low level enemies pose a threat. Even the lowly bloatfly can have a legendary mutation and will do a lot of damage.  - Generally less buggy. I've only had a few annoying bugs. Less than I imagined for a game of this size and complexity.  - Mods. Bethesda games have always been very moddable and this one is no different.   - Armor layer system. It's pretty cool to have a base outfit, then a piece of armor for every part of the body. However, by about 60 hours playtime I'd already had gotten the best armors and haven't found an upgrade since.   Neutrals   - It runs really well...when you aren't in the city. I get a solid 60fps outside of the city but once I venture in it drops to 30 or less. I've seen a mod that might help with that but I have yet to use it. Also, zooming in with a scope drops my fps as well.  - Voice acting is surprisingly good so most characters. A few feel like they have zero personality while others genuinely feel alive.  - Exploration. There is lots to see and lots to find. You'll be wandering through lots of underground tunnels and ruined buildings. It all starts feeling same-y after a while.  - This game doesn't feel like a true successor to Fallout 3 and NV. It just doesn't have the feeling of a true Fallout game. It feels like a Fallout-themed FPS. What it does, it does well. But I think it's focused to much on the FPS and not enough on the RPG. Todd Howard said it was an RPG with FPS elements but to me it feels like the opposite, an FPS with light RPG elements.  - Removal of skills and casualization. In NV, there were plenty of times where I could use my medicine skill to fix (or kill) a person, use my repair skill to fix machinery or even use my skill level to pass a speech check. None of this is possible in F4, and none of that depth is there. The world feels much less alive.  - Voiced Protagonist. This is the big one for me. I feel as though the game was built around the protagonist having a voice. Because they needed to record so many voice lines, they sacrificed features of the game, mainly skills. If they still had skills, they'd have had to record so much more dialogue for speech checks. Voiced protagonist also limits the amount of variation the story can have, again because that would involve more recording. See where I'm going with this?  - The storyline operates similarly to Mass Effect. You can't be a truly evil ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ like in the previous two games, but you can be an ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ along the way. You will always be a hero.  - Settlement building. I would have put this under pros but it just lacks depth. It's neat but it brings a bunch of hassles. Your settlements need stuff to thrive. They are often being attacked or have some issue. I wanted to build an amazing base, not babysit 50 settlements.  - Removal of the karma system. Sometimes, it was good being bad. In 3 and NV, being good or bad had it's pros and cons. With this game there is no such thing and thus a layer of depth is removed from the game. The closest thing is that your companions may like or dislike certain actions.  - Removal of weapon and armor maintenance. Some people like it. I don't. It removes a layer of depth to the gameplay and makes all those guns and armor you find useless.  - Caps (money) is less useful in this game. You'll find all you need on your adventures, especially if you have the loot perks from the Luck tree. I had over a 1000 .50 sniper rounds before I ever found a .50 rifle for instance. There are a few nice items in shops but they aren't needed.  - Lockpicking is copied from Skyrim. While I'd like to have seen something new, at least I already know how to work this minigame. I've always thought that Oblivion had the best lockpicking system.  - Computer hacking is the same as 3 and NV. I never learned how to properly do it. I just guess words over and over until I get through. At least in this game, you can't be totally locked out.  Cons  - The game is a blatant console port.   - Crappy, controller designed UI. Since there are only 4 options in dialogue, this limits interactions options and removes depth.  - Story spoiler: After the end of the story, you can't lead whatever faction you sided with. They just...exist and call you the leader. They stop advancing their goals.   - After the story, you are just given repetitive settlement babysitting quests. I've stopped caring.   - Little replayability. Because of the lack of depth there aren't many roads to go down and the destinations are all the same.  - Less weapon variety than NV. By about 70 hours I had found all the base varieties of guns and had most of them modded the way I wanted. Haven't picked up a weapon since.  - Non-story quests are just go here, talk to person. Maybe shoot them. There have been a few interesting encounters but it all feels like busywork. This game is actually worse than Skyrim about this since there aren't many different ways to do it because all the depth has been removed.  - Power Armor doesn't work as expected. I expected it to absorb damage, then break. Once a piece breaks, you start taking damage to that area. However how it actually works is just another layer of armor. If you take damage, then you just take less damage, the armor doesn't absorb it all till it runs out of hp.  - But this biggest gripe I have is...  Lack.  Of.  DEPTH!!!!  Seriously, they took 70% of what makes a Fallout game Fallout and threw it away in favor of casualization (to appeal to a bigger audience and thus increase sales) and more SHOOTY ACTION. As a shooter, this game is really good. As a Fallout game, it falls flat on it's face.  My final score: 6.5/10. Fun combat, decent gear and character customization, lots of exploring and collecting. Settlement building. Lack of depth as expected from a Fallout title is the biggest flaw.","hours":599.5}
{"funny_percent":0.03686635944700461,"helpful_percent":0.997028129278055,"review":"A very good game, but also not the Fallout game I was hoping it would be. I still recommend it as it is a lot of fun and well worth the money, but the dialogue in the game limits it quite badly.   To see my final opinion watch this video:  YouTube™ Video: FALLOUT 4: Is it a Good Game? (WARNING: May Contain Opinions)  Views: 85,630 My final RAMBLING 'verdict' on whether or not I felt that Fallout 4 was a good game (for me). ","hours":1130.5}
{"funny_percent":0.09259259259259259,"helpful_percent":0.9569913759309154,"review":"This is an excellent game.  I think a great Youtuber called Rags once said;  \"This is an excellent shooter, that takes place in the Fallout universe.\"  It's an excellent shooter, but...not an excellent Fallout game.","hours":268.1}
{"funny_percent":0.02,"helpful_percent":0.8046090654636838,"review":"RECOMMENDATION: *Yes, if you enjoy open world shooting, crafting, building settlement, player customization, buy it! *No, if you looking for vary outcome of choice being made, cinematic storyline, don't buy it  GAME IMPRESSION: First 2 hours, storyline & combat fit together After 5 hours, radiation infection reduce max hp! After 8 hours, wanted collect more junks to craft weapon mods! After 11 hours, wanted to level-up to get more perks! After 14 hours, many hidden side quest!  COMPARE TO FALLOUT SERIES: Karma system replaced by companion's like or dislike Player has limited response to the world & limited impact to player Unlimited level-up capacity!  Earn perks rather than skill points No specific skill to heal / persuade / repair, all replace by Perks Collect steel & other material to repair power armor Long loading time without SDD in CPU Landscape is well made. Better lighting & cinematic effect. Ultra high texture setting still seem blur on certain object & outfits Body dismember is still use same technic from Fallout 3 (Rag Doll) Improved melee combat experince, more quick, camera shaking on hit & etc No weapon repair Character animation is still similar to Fallout 3/New Vegas Limited interaction to Companion, cannot setup their gears Power Armor can be found at the beginning, but require fusion core to continue using it  Power Armor can be mix to put on diffrent helmet, torso, left / right arm, leg Power Armor has a jet pack!!! More trap on the door & hallway  Mine trap is placed randomly A lot hidden item, some may seem creative placing them! Legendary item! More corpse & healing item can be easily found  Allow to go over the map border  COMPLETION TIME: *Rushed play style: Around 25 hours *Leisure play style: Around 141 hours+  GAME DIFFICULTY: ( ✔ ) Adjustable in mid game ( ✔ ) Game made for casual gamer ( ✔ ) Game made for average gamer ( ✔ ) Game made for professional ( _ ) Unlockable loadout / Startup customization ( _ ) Set higher difficult to increase reward ( _ ) Penalty if objective failed  ( _ ) Failure still able to gain something  STORY CATCH-UP: ( ✔ ) Provided story journal / lore to recap the story  ( _ ) Provided list of cut-scenes to revise ( ✔ ) Require memorize the locations, names & details ( ✔ ) Require alot of reading to understand the story ( ✔ ) Without understand the story, still enjoyable   ONLINE MODE: ( _ ) Multiplayer ( _ ) Leaderboards (Friends Ranking) ( _ ) Daily / Weekly / Monthly Challenges ( ✔ ) Mod Support (Nexus Mods) ( ✔ ) Mod Support (Bethesda.net) ( _ ) Mod Support (Steam workshop) ( ✔ ) Microtransactions  OFFLINE MODE: ( ✔ ) Campaign  ( _ ) Enemy level catch up player level ( ✔ ) Alternative Storyline (DLC) ( ✔ ) Alternate Ending  ( _ ) Special reward in the end  ( ✔ ) After the end, upgrades & inventory carry on ( _ ) Split Screen / Local Coop ( _ ) Endless Mode (Score Attack / Personal Best)  GENERAL OFFER: ( ✔ ) Open World (Fast Travel) ( _ ) Provided Vehicle to Travel  ( ✔ ) Side Quest  ( ✔ ) Many ways to earn $$$ ( ✔ ) Many things to buy ( ✔ ) Many things to unlock (Perks) ( _ ) Many challenges to achieve ( ✔ ) Inventory Management (Complex) ( ✔ ) Mark selected item as favourite  ( ✔ ) Random NPC generated ( ✔ ) Random loots generated ( ✔ ) Exploration Surpirses / Easter Egg  ( ✔ ) Collectible Items / Secret Area / Hidden Rewards ( ✔ ) Make decision to apply Perks  ( ✔ ) Make decision to apply Weapon Upgrades / Capacity ( ✔ ) Decision cause diffierent cutscene / consequnces  ( ✔ ) Allow other ways to complete a mission  ( ✔ ) Undo apply Perks / Upgrades  ( ✔ ) Replace Player's Costumes  ( ✔ ) Player's Head Customization ( ✔ ) Player's Body Customization ( ✔ ) Provide companion  ( ✔ ) Companion's customization ( _ ) Puzzle Solving ( ✔ ) Stealth play  ( _ ) Lovely Children ( ✔ ) Crafting ( _ ) Creepy enemies  ( _ ) Violence Execution ( ✔ ) Dismember on critical hit ( _ ) Rude Talks ( _ ) Partial Nudity ( _ ) Sexual Content ( _ ) Unlockable Artworks ( ✔ ) Progress Statistic  ( ✔ ) Console Commands  ( ✔ ) Anti-Cheat System (Console Command)  ( ✔ ) Steam Achievements (total: 84) ( _ ) Steam Trading Cards ( ✔ ) Steam Cloud Save ( _ ) Provide Multiple Slot to Save  ( ✔ ) Advance video graphic setting ( ✔ ) Smooth fresh rate (60 fps / 60 hertz) ( ✔ ) FOV adjustable ( _ ) Toggle Motion Blur ( ✔ ) Skippable intro ( _ ) Adjustable voice & sound volume  ( ✔ ) Suitable for Controller gaming ( ✔ ) Suitable for PC gaming  LIKES: +Well desgined perks +Weapon & armor name can be rename +Inventory management can sort by value, weight & etc +Support mod = easy to be upgrade in anyway u like +Dialogue can be cancel if player walk away +Some indoor area is allow to fast travel +Funny sarcastic dialogue +Face customization +Settlement customization +Power Armor upgrade / painting +Weapon attachments customization +Drug recipes +Allow console commmend (noclip, 999 carry weight & more!)  DISLIKES: -Imbalance voice volume -No brightness/gamma setting :( -Juices blood on bullet impact  -Inventory management need improvement (Prefer skyrim) -Weapons management cannot sort by ammo -Weapon name is mess-up if collected too many -Too many type of ammo -Too many dead body on the wasteland = can easily loot alot of stuff to survive -No karma system = No matter what player do, will alway be the hero -Some indoor checkpoint is confusing, especially linking from ground floor to upper floor -Too early to meet super mutant & they use small rifle again  -Dialogue limited to 4 choices, if wanted to barter, need to wait quest dialogue end -Power Armor can be stolen if the fusion core still inside -Power Armor cannot swim -Short side quest -BUG: Cannot enter a vertibird -BUG: NPC is disappear!  QUALITY\tSCORE Graphic (2015)\tA- Cinematic\tC+ Contents Volume\tB Artistic\tB Level Design\tB Combat Tactic\tA Sound & Music\tB Lively Animated\tB Realistic Effects\tB Online Value\tC Replay Value\tA+ Bug-Free\tB Overall\tB+  WORTH BUYING: ( ✔ ) Yes, normal price worth it! ( _ ) Yes, but too expensive ( _ ) No, because it's an incomplete product ( _ ) No, because it's not fun  WORTH BUYING WITH DLC? ( _ ) Yes, base game + Season Pass (all DLC) ( ✔ ) No, DLCn is different value  BEST DISCOUNT: 50% off, since June 2017   MORE INFORMATION: *Random video review:  YouTube™ Video: Fallout 4 - Before You Buy  Views: 1,380,490 Fallout 4 (PC, Xbox One, PS4) is finally here. Is this trip to a wasteland really worth all the hype? Let's talk about it!  *Game File Size: 25.79 GB","hours":292.1}
{"funny_percent":0.09392265193370165,"helpful_percent":0.8474218955477473,"review":"It gets better with mods, and nexus mods is there for you! You can even get achievements while running mods thanks to the Fallout 4 Script Extender!.  Good game: 8/10 Bad Fallout game tho.","hours":122}
{"funny_percent":0.08,"helpful_percent":0.7655083393070887,"review":"Skyrim with guns.  It's by no means a bad game. It's just not classic Fallout.","hours":108.2}
{"funny_percent":0.03878326996197719,"helpful_percent":0.7211696886368762,"review":"I've logged a couple hundred hours in both Fallout 3 and Fallout: New Vegas. After putting in around 20 hours into Fallout 4, my opinion can be summed up as follows: great game, terrible port, with a few misguided attempts at innovation.  Pros: + Fantastic character customization. Even without more detailed controls, the system allows for truly unique looking characters. + Great characterization. I've frequently heard people claim characters are \"bland\" and \"boring\", but those that I've run in to so far have been anything but. I think that this opinion stems from the first few hours of the game, when you're first getting a feel for things. Preston Garvey is admittedly pretty bland, as well as the inhabitants of every tiny settlement until you reach the edge of Boston. Once you start getting into the nitty gritty of it, you'll find some charming characters. + Good AI, improved companion AI. This is another point of contention. I've seen people complain that the AI is bad, but in my experience, it's above average when compared to most other AAA titles these days, and leaps ahead of where Bethesda was with Skyrim and the previous Fallout. Enemies make frequent use of cover, attempt to flank, etc. Companions position themselves to accurately fire down at people. I've had very few issues so far. + Amazing gun/armor customization. Glad they added in layered armoring. + Music. Great song choice, cool radio station, funny announcer (though I do hope he'll actually tie into a quest at some point). Non-radio music is also great. + Environment and Level Design. Very pleased with how it turned out. Plus, the increased amount of outer-cell and vertical-gameplay oriented areas makes me very happy.   Contested: = Dialogue. I don't like the four-button system, and I don't like the whole \"color indicated difficulty\" with speech checks. I very much prefer a flat threshold. That said, the dialogue is fluid, the multi-person conversations are a refreshing addition, and I can't bring myself to outright dislike this. = Bugs. This is probably the most bug-free Bethesda release I've ever seen, not counting the problems associated with Gamebryo or the game's status as a mediocre port. Still, the bugs are there, and they are occasionally jarring. Every major release should expect some bugs, and Fallout 4 seems about average for the games industry rather than for Bethesda's historically poor track record. = Story. I can take it or leave it, which may be better to take as a bad sign. If this game were linear, this would be a major downer.  Cons: - Controls. Jesus, the control scheme is bad. UI is terrible. This was a case of people reassigning keys to be used on the PC rather than giving it the attention is deserves. This is probably the worst of it. With a decent UI, almost half the problems with the game would instantly disappear. - Voiced Protagonist. Ties in with the above. Personally, I find the voice actors did great jobs doing this, but it still doesn't fit, and completely removes the ability for me to make a character of my own, which was a large part of the appeal. I can't get wrapped up in this character's problems. I can't bring myself to care about his/her plight on the Earth. I think this is mostly a matter of poor execution. A voiced protagonist would work fine if they also managed to keep the character's motivations ambiguous, and not have it so heavily reliant on a preestablished backstory. - They dumbed down the \"RP\" in \"RPG\". It's now an FPSrpG. I want my perk/skill based dialogue checks back. I want there to be moral chocies that shape how my character is seen. I want there to be a karma meter that shows how I'm perceived in the wasteland. - Gamebyro and all of the issues associated with it. - Terrible PC options. You'll have to go directly into the preferences & initialization files to change things like mouse acceleration and FOV. - No holstered weapons. This irks me more than it should. (Clarification: I meant that when a weapon is holstered, you can't see it on the player model.)  Not Rated: ~ Performance. I have a very high end system, so I can't speak as to how nicely this runs on budget machines, but I've heard good things.  I may revisit this and add more with my updated thoughts as I progress.","hours":167.8}
{"funny_percent":0.08078947368421052,"helpful_percent":0.7640615459672139,"review":"*Please note that this is an early impressions review of the technical side of the game!    I have only played this for about an hour so I can only talk about the performance and visuals at this stage.  Firstly I'll get the negatives out of the way. - We knew the graphics would be rather outdated but some of the textures range from terrible to passable. Once you leave the vault, the world looks much more majestic but do keep in mind that this game has been in production for around 5 years so realistically, it's going to look 5 years old.  - There seems to be some rather frustrating form of mouse smoothing in play here which I can't find an option to disable.  The positives! - It runs very well!  Running on a GTX 780, the game runs at Ultra with no framerate drops in the slightest. I have a 60hz monitor so the game is locked to 60FPS with V-Sync at 1920x1080 and I am yet to see it drop below that. GPU usage sits around 60% at most times.  *Full specs at bottom.  - CPU optimisation is great and all of my 8 threads are running evenly balanced with each thread utilising around 30-50%.  - Despite my previous comment, the game does look lovely once you step outside of the vault.  - Gunplay feels organic but does suffer from the aforementioned mouse smoothing until the sensitivity settings are tweaked just right.  This game is no Arkham Knight. It's been out for 1.5 hours and it's ready to be purchased and played without patches, game-breaking bugs (so far) and poor performance.  More to come once I've played some more!   Specs:  - Intel i7 2600 Sandybridge - 3.4GHz - 12GB DDR3 RAM - Nvidia GTX 780 - 3GB VRAM - 3TB Mechanical HDD","hours":127.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7852885742108457,"review":"The story is not that great, or VATS, or the RPG elements, or dialogue sometimes.  Don't get me wrong, the game is good but the mods makes the game S.P.E.C.I.A.L *wink* The story itself can be finished within 20 hours and most of the side-quests are booring and repetitive so there is not mutch to do after. At that point, you can get bored preety fast. So why not make the wasteland a living forest? or a cold winter, or a chilly autumn. Get a Stormtrooper armor ( or nothing at all *wink wink*), equip some WW2 weapons, strap a military grade harness to Dogmeat, get in your Buzz-Lightyear power-armor and go kill some Super Mutants!","hours":669}
{"funny_percent":0.02926829268292683,"helpful_percent":0.8933499188391513,"review":"Ok I'm starting to think people confuse disappointing with terrible game. This right here is far from a terrible game, in fact it is a very good game and anyone who says differently is lying to themselves. THIS is however the weakest title in the Fallout series and that does need to be addressed. This is far from the RPG that we had gotten in NV but it does address a lot of the problems I had with NV. Gunplay is much, much better. Loot is much more exciting because we don't automatically know where the best weapons are and each play through is interesting because you don't know what you will get. I recommend this game as a flying colors because it is a good game, its just disappointing. In between F4 and NV lies the perfect game in my opinion","hours":659.3}
{"funny_percent":0.04691358024691358,"helpful_percent":0.8370124337142197,"review":"Ugh... Yeah, I suppose I have to grudgingly recommend this game. I played it. I beat it. I had fun doing it. But god damn it, Bethesda really needs to work on their depth of storytelling because this game is seriously lacking in that respect.  Now don't get me wrong, I know they wrote and recorded umpteen bazillion lines of dialog and everything, and I know a lot of time (and even love) went into its crafting, but it just wasn't enough to really fill in this impressively broad world they created, and that's truly a shame. Your decisions will mean almost nothing, quests are tight, linear, and boring, and much of the story building is truly only on the surface. Your character is pretty much stuck somewhere between 'neutral' and 'good' (it's pretty much impossible to play a hard-evil character without borking the story), which seriously limits the possibilities for roleplaying. And yeah, there are multiple factions, and ultimately whichever one you side with determines the end game you get, but the actual impact is pretty minimal. Hell, the interactions between the factions are completely static. No way to form alliances between them against another, or really subvert them, or turn the tables, or anything even remotely strategic like that. The aforementioned end games are all, disappointingly, more or less very similar. The world feels less like a dynamic, living, breathing environment and more like a damned amusement park. Everything's on rails and the outcome of every situation is always the same no matter what you do. What if I WANT to sell my companions into slavery and then face their angry families back at home? (Or, better yet, an angry mob assembled by angry family members!) And for ♥♥♥♥'s sake, don't get me started on the radiant quests, they're just so damned repetitive.  That being said, as more of a survival/crafting shooter with some light RPG elements peppered in? Yeah, it's pretty great. Spend hours gathering materials and crafting, building settlements, exploring, stuff like that... Yeah I had loads of good fun there. And the map is pretty huge, there is quite a lot to explore, for certain, and there are loads of spots where you can plop down a settlement.  As far as being an RPG goes, they really dialed it back to the point where I'm not even sure I can call it an RPG, and that's really let my expectations down. I see what they were trying to do, and there are things I like about the new perks system, but I can't see it being really successful (especially in a full RPG) without some kind of stats-based system as well. They dumbed it down to the point where it was a little disappointing, they need to flesh it out a little better.  So if you want a survival game with lots to explore where you can have a lot of fun shooting muties, then this is absolutely your game. If you want a little bit of story as a side dish with that kind of adventure, then this game will satisfy. If you're a hardcore RPG player or a long-time fan of the Fallout franchise, then you will likely be disappointed by the lack of depth to complement the impressive breadth of this game.  Overall, 8/10 would subvert one of my favorite game franchises again.","hours":1273.4}
{"funny_percent":0.05333333333333334,"helpful_percent":0.9687161386666532,"review":"After playing Fallout 4 for more than 120 hours, I think I can finally write my opinion about it. But let's answer a few questions first:  Is it the Game of the Century everyone hoped it to be? No. Is it flawless? No. Is it disappointing? Kinda. Is it good? Yes. A million times Yes.  Well, let's take a look at its Pros and Cons:  Pros: + World Design: Bethesda has always created amazing worlds and Fallout 4 is no exception. Everything about world design is just perfect and can make you forget about fast traveling and go everywhere by foot. + Character Customization: Fallout 4 offers a very rich customization system. You can customize every little detail on the character's face and with lots of clothing options, you can truly create your own unique character. + Power Armors: Some may disagree with me; But I freaking love the new power armor system. It's finally something different than a normal armor and makes you feel like a true beast. And as a catch, they are limited by fusion cores. (Yes I know. It isn't really lore-friendly.) + Crafting: Another thing I really loved about Fallout 4. IMO Fallout 4 has the best crafting system in all of Bethesda's game. You can create and attach various mods on your weapons and some of them can turn your weapons into an entirely different one which is really great. You can also create upgrades for your clothes and armors, make chems and grenades, and even paint your power armor (and in near future, make your own robot). Which is really nice. + Combat: Though melee combat is still a bit clunky, shooting people in the face is much smoother than before. Unlike Fallout 3 and Fallout: New Vegas, combat is now tolerable and actually enjoyable without using VATS. + Voice acted protagonist: This was a bit controversial. But I'm one of the people who actually liked this new addition. In previous Fallouts and Elder Scrolls, it always annoyed me that my character didn't show the slightest of emotion. Now I feel like my character has a personality and is actually alive. + Companions: This is also my personal opinion and not everyone agrees with it. I found all of them except Preston Garvey (It's pretty obvious why.) much more likeable than New Vegas and 3's companions. Especially Nick Valentine, the charming Synth detective, who is undoubtedly the best character in the game and one of the best in the entire series.  Neutral: = The Story: Let's face it. Fallout series isn't known for offering deep, Bioshock-level stories. Though personally I found Fallout 4's story more interesting than the previous titles, it still isn't anything special. = Dialog: The thing many hated in Fallout 4. Yes, it does not offer multiple options like New Vegas. For example you can no longer use your intelligence or strength in conversations and only Charisma checks remain. Also there are many instances which your character says the line in an entirely different tone than what the dialog wheel said. The \"Sarcastic\" option is the worst example. Sometimes it's just a joke, sometimes it makes your character a complete ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥. With that being said, it still didn't really bother me thanks to the voice acted protagonist (I repeat, this is just my opinion.). Otherwise it would've been in Cons. = Bugs: I got to give some credit to Bethesda; this has to be the most polished and bug-free game they have ever released. Though many people have faced a lot of bugs and glitches, I only encountered two or three small bugs in my entire playthrough. = Graphics and Performance: This is by no means the prettiest game in the world but it still looks really good despite some ♥♥♥♥♥♥ textures. Performance is ok most of the times but strangely the frame rate goes nuts in urban areas. And I have a GTX 970. = Settlements: I admit I was surprised by the settlement system. It offers lots of options to make your own settlement and honestly it's very enjoyable. But it suffers from a horrible, horrible and horrible User Interface. It's so confusing that personally after playing the game for 120 hours I still haven't got the hang of it. And I discovered many of the options in YouTube videos.  Cons: - Simplified RPG mechanics: Unfortunately many of the game's famous mechanics were removed in Fallout 4. No Karma (I was personally fine with it though), No reputations, No skills. I hope Bethesda does not continue this trend in their future games. - Lack of choices: My biggest problem with this game. In previous Fallouts, there were lots of choices that really affected the world around you in a big way. I mean you could see the consequences of every choices you made and they largely affected the ending. That was the main reason I fell in love with Fallout. Sadly that isn't the case with Fallout 4. There are much less of them in the game and most of them have little to no impact in the world around you. Even the main choice you make in the game suffers from this problem. I hope Bethesda fixes this in the DLC.  Overall despite some of the game's kinda annoying problems, I really enjoyed Fallout 4 and it's my 2nd favorite game of 2015 (second to Life is Strange, that masterpiece.). But I really hope that Bethesda does not continue their trend of simplifying - or as some of you would say, dumbing down - their game because it will hurt their future games more than Fallout 4. And for ♥♥♥♥'s sake use a new engine.  My score: 8.8/10","hours":209.6}
{"funny_percent":0.017094017094017096,"helpful_percent":0.859855476062081,"review":"People have demonstrated consistently since Fallout 4's release how dangerous expectations can be. To expect great things from the game, and to be disappointed when those expectations are not met, is quite normal. When judgement is rendered solely on the result of those expectations, the fatal mistake is made. It in turn leads to a propensity for jumping to conclusions, and from that point it's a rapid descent into ignorance.  Back when Fallout 4 was released, most of the Steam reviews consisted of incoherent, furious ranting that tarnished the whole title after only a few hours worth of gameplay. After being shocked by the overwhelming amount of negativity, I decided to make my own and openly condemned the bad reviews for what they were: baseless and devoid of perspective. It was quite obvious the authors made that fatal mistake, which is unfair to the many developers who put their soul and passion into creating the game.  In the end, Fallout fans will almost assuredly find disappointments with Fallout 4, as did I. But if the ignorance of the older reviews and reception of previous games ought to teach one thing, it's that those disappointments are no excuse for blind judgement or jumping to conclusions. If an opinion is to be rendered of this game in the form of review, let it be guided by reason and supported by logic. It is in the pursuit of that fairness and clarity that I chose to write this review.  ----------------------------------------  Fallout 4 is a deeply enjoyable and well-crafted game. However, it definitely has its issues. Bethesda tried new things in this title, some more ambitious than others, and not all of them were successful.   It's true that dialogue has been watered down as the devs chose to forgo text conversation choices in favor of a voiced and much more simplified dialogue wheel, which is further hampered by boring choices and weak voice work. Character advancements have been combined into a single perk/SPECIAL sheet. Settlement building, while certainly fun, is mostly aesthetic filler that has little impact on the game world. Side quests far too often amount to just killing some mandatory enemies, particularly with the Minutemen (who are supposed to be the \"good guys\" of this installment), and can become repetitive.  My most prominent grievance with Fallout 4 is the dialogue overhaul and removal of the karma system, which was completely unnecessary and not desired by a single player in existence. Unlike the previous flaws, this thoroughly irks me. I realized that this ties in to the primary weakness of Fallout 4: its lack of meaningful dialogue in comparison to most Bethesda titles. Far too often, your dialogue choices are short, shallow, meaningless, or all three.   The only choices that have any outcome are blatantly outlined as persuasion options, a lot of which only help you get some extra caps. It's not that you should be making major decisions all the time; the problem is that you, as a speaking character, now have a voice that carries no power. What you decide to say is almost always inconsequential. The dialogue system is highly reminiscent of Mass Effect except watered down; the reason it doesn't work in Fallout is that the two games have totally different approaches to conversation. The previous Fallout games had much better dialogue options because they meant something. Sometimes, your choice of words just made someone hate you, allowed you to entice or inspire others, or developed your reputation through the karma system. Now that karma is gone, your choices are just that much more pointless.  The bottom line is that Bethesda sacrificed a tremendous amount of RPG dialogue elements to accommodate full voice-work. While it was an ambitious attempt, it was an all-around mistake and it sticks out like a sore if you're a fan of Bethesda games or RPG's in general. The dialogue wheel system could have worked out just fine, but Bethesda carried it out in the wrong way.  ----------------------------------------  All the aforementioned flaws are some of the most central complaints naysayers have about Fallout 4 and yet not a single one of them has been horrific enough to ruin my experience or let me down. Despite the few bugs I've come across, despite the certain questionable and sometimes idiotic design choices Bethesda made here, this game is still extremely well done. I still feel that incomparable thrill that only Fallout can bring.  Even though Fallout 4 falls extremely short on dialogue and all aspects associated with it, it's still an improvement over its predecessors in almost every other way imaginable. The game suffers some graphical issues like muddy textures and poor lighting at times, like any good Bethesda game, but it's still astoundingly beautiful and even breathtaking at times. Movement, melee, gunplay, and physics are better and smoother than they've ever been.   People were quick to judge the Commonwealth map based on its size and I was prepared to be disappointed as well, but it's surprisingly the best one Bethesda has whipped up thus far. The suburban locations are more organically dispersed and things become more compressed as you near the cities. Streets are narrow, buildings are tall, and locations are absolutely jam-packed alongside a ton of unmarked ruins and buildings you can enter. There are hardly any copy-pasted environments and they all show great attention to detail.  I was also worried that granting access to power armor and a minigun within the first thirty minutes of the game would be a huge balancing issue as well, but it really isn’t. Power armor relies on uncommon fusion cores for power and you’re not an unstoppable god while wearing the suit, especially not at higher difficulties or levels. You can acquire some strong weapons like the minigun or Fatman relatively early but finding sufficient ammo is another matter entirely.  ----------------------------------------  Skyrim was a simplification of the Oblivion formula, but it was still a fantastic game. In much the same way, Fallout 4 is a simplification of the Fallout 3/New Vegas formula and is still extremely good. Even in light of its issues, this game has not been a disappointment at all. RPG elements can be enhanced through the wonderful modding community and will eventually make up for some of the game's weaker points, a perk of the PC version. Bethesda has, however, been on a recent trend of simplifying their games too much and I hope they change course.  Truthfully, the negative Steam reviews had me partly worried that I’d be disappointed but I chose to disregard them and arrive at my own opinion. I’ve learned that nearly every point of contention was blown out of context. The few issues that haven’t been redeemed in my eyes still pale in the face of the tremendous work that was done to bring this new and beautiful Fallout world to life. I have no doubt that the naysayers worked up their expectations to heights beyond reason, and it’s therefore no mystery that they hit the ground so hard afterwards. I chose to see Fallout 4 for what it is rather than what I expected or imagined it to be: a lovingly crafted game that, despite being marred by some of its shortcomings, has that same engaging splendor that far supercedes its flaws.  I highly recommend you try the game and approach it with a neutral and reasonable demeanor, and you won’t be disappointed.  ---------------------------------------- EDIT I'm grateful that so many people have found this review helpful and I'd like to thank you all for commenting. I can't reply to everyone's comments but I've certainly read every one of them.  I hope that my review has given you some useful perspective, either good or bad. ","hours":59.4}
{"funny_percent":0.053763440860215055,"helpful_percent":0.7380977929095566,"review":"Recommended with Caution!!!   UPDATED : 18/11/2015, Additions and edits are in italics  Incoming wall of glorious text.  TL:DR  Fallout 4 is a welcome addition to the franchise but suffers greatly by \"over-extending\" itself, which results in a more simplified gaming experience as opposed to the previous (Fallout 3/New Vegas) installments. Gunplay is more fast paced but SOME RPG elements have been stripped down. The new game mechanics such as the settlement base building are not implemented very well and the dialogue, while the main protagonist is now nicely voice-acted, has been \"dumbed-down\" due to it. The UI is cumbersome and needs improving, the optimization of the game seems fairly stella although there are unusual fps drops where there shouldn't be and the visuals aren't exactly \"next-gen\".   Combine all that with the fact that some important keys are hard-coded and basic options, such as v-sync and mouse smoothing, have to be edited via .ini files make this game just bareable to play at times. It stands on it's own merit, but when comparing it to it's back catalogue, it is somewhat underwhelming.  The Good Gunplay has been taken up a notch, it is much more fast paced.  Sprinting has been added. It drains AP and gets you from point A-B quicker. Great addition for players who don't like using V.A.T.S as their AP pool is no longer \"wasted\".  V.A.T.S has also been changed, while in V.A.T.S time slows as opposed to stopping, this not only gives a sense of urgency to act, but it can also be benefical in some circumstances. Also crits are now activated by filling up a bar which is gained by sucessfully hitting an enemy.  Weapons and Armour now have an in-depth mod system, you can change nearly every aspect of a weapon, from making a longer barrel for higher damage to making an extended magazine for holding more bullets. Armour can have more padding for extra limb protection, or even additional pockets to carry more. There's even armour pieces that can be mixed at will. Bethesda did pretty damn good with this system. You can even re-name them!!! Nothing more satisfying then a \"G2 Fengtender\" or a \"Fengcannon\" ><.  Legendary Loot. Some enemies will have a legendary tag maked with a star. They usually drop at least 1 legendary item which is randomized. I've found 3 so far and each have unique abilities (e.g I have a Lucky Metal Chest Piece which not only has good damage resistance, it has +2 Luck bonus).  Mods. There are already a ton of nice mods on the nexus, ranging from game mechanic changes to new features (including one I've been using recently, Ammo Crafting). However G.E.C.K for modders hasn't been released yet sadly :(.  The Bad The UI. It's just as clunky, if not actually worse, as in the previous installments. This is an indication of a console port.  Hard-Binds and lack of important options. Why the hell are we still getting mouse acceleration AND smoothing enabled by default in 2015 is beyond me. Thankfully some .ini file edits can fix most of the problems, however I wouldn't recommend uncapping the fps past 60, unless you want to play at double/triple game speed. Tying mouse movement and the game engine to the FPS is, quite frankly, bloody stupid. People that don't play with WASD movement will have trouble playing since most keys are hard bound. Another good indication of a console port.  Loading times. Probably on my side of things, I admit, I don't have an SSD yet, but I do have a Black Edition WD HDD which is pretty fast at loading but even so the loading times are long. I can make a cup of coffee while waiting for the world to load. Confirmed (after testing with a new SSD) it IS the HDD. This is still worth noting as not everyone has access to a SSD, the load times can be anything from 20 seconds - 1 minute with the above HDD depending what's loading.  Random FPS Drops. I can run the game fine on High settings @ 1080p 60FPS, however there will be times where I get sudden drops to about 42FPS, even to 30FPS when there's nothing going on, on the screen to even cause that. This still happens with an SSD just for the record  Very Early Game Power Armour. Power Armour works differently than in previous installments. Rather then putting it on like armour it is a suit that has to be interacted with. You can get it very early on (as early as 1 hour in) and is pretty useful. You do need to power it however. once it runs out of juice you're basically running walking around in heavy metal.  Previous Mechanics Have Been Scrapped. There is no more karma system, repairing is no longer a thing (except for Power Armour), you can't make your own ammo and, probably the most disappointing thing, NO HARDCORE MODE!!! It's as if Bethesda looked at Obsidian's best features in F:NV and thought \"♥♥♥♥ it\".  The Not So Ugly Voice Acted Protagonist and Dialogue. While the voice acting is a welcome new addition, it has also simplified one of the main mechanics of the franchise, the dialogue. No more using your stats for different choices, everything dialogue related is now tied to Charisma. You only get 4 options, most of which are Yes, No, Sarcastic and Info.   No More Skills. Talking About Charisma, the RPG/leveling system has undergone a overhaul. There are no longer any skills (like Repair/Survival/Lockpick/etc). Instead leveling is tied to a perk tree which is influenced by your S.P.E.C.I.A.L stats. Every level rewards you with a point that can be spent on either increasing one of your S.P.E.C.I.A.L stats or on a perk. It's a much more simple system that some will like, others won't. A big thing to remember is that THERE IS NO LEVEL CAP!!!. Thank You Bethesda for not locking level caps behind DLC paywalls (for once :p).  Settlement building. Great idea, very poor execution. No tutorial followed by a very clunky UI makes it tedious to use. The worst thing about it is that it's required (to some extent), it's one of the new main features of the game. Kuddos to Bethesda to try and bring something new to the table, but it's very hard to appreciate when it's a complete cluster♥♥♥♥ as it is now. After investing more time into the settlement building I am growing to love it and it's a nice addition. However the above still stands, the settlement building needs ALOT of QoL changes to the UI and useability.  Terrain. Worth mentioning, the level design is pretty decent for most part, but again like previous installments foilage and terrain block shots. It is so annoying to know that I can see an enemy through a fence and know I can hit them through the gap and instead of getting a hitmarker I get a bullet hole 2 inchs away. I could understand this if the world was procedurally generated but it's not.  Bugs, Glitches and Crashes, Oh My!!! If there's one thing I've come to expect with Bethesda games it's bugs, glitches and crashes. Oddly enough I haven't come across too many as of yet, just the odd graphical glitches with weapon models, delayed weapon changing and getting stuck on some debris. After putting in some more hours I've noticed these becoming much more frequent, however I've still yet to come across a game-breaking bug. Even so many players on the forums ARE experiencing game-breaking bugs. Save OFTEN. ","hours":130.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9025542613912754,"review":"Two years of updates and expansions, and there's still random CTDs and Game Breaking Bugs!   Friggin' Amazin!  Bethesda/10","hours":148.8}
{"funny_percent":0.2857142857142857,"helpful_percent":0.7445521143670486,"review":"This is the best Skyrim mod I`ve ever played!","hours":68}
{"funny_percent":0.0392156862745098,"helpful_percent":0.7118590587423589,"review":"I lost the urge to play and finish this game, dunno it just felt boring, repetive and no innovative at all.  Fallout 4 is average game but quite addictive,repetitive with no replayabillity and lots of useless/unfinished features, like settlement system which was barely working and entirely pointless to the game.Fallout 4 has only succeed because of pre-builded Skyrim hype and brilliant marketing done by Bethesda.  but \"muhh mods will fix it\"  If a game needs a mods in order to be enjoyable then the game design is flawed.  Game was fun for first 100 hours but it felt like empty, I don't feel like I will ever go back to this game again. But yeah 85% of the time was just mindless walking > finding a dungeon > killing raiders > looting > going back to the city to sell items. This game is so shallow that it does not deserve more than 7/10. Bethesda went way too far with the \"freedom , go anywhere do what you want\". Also I won't mention \"random skeletons in the funny position\", because at least level design and landscapes in the games were pleasing to look at. Those guys behind it did a fantastic job.  I wanted this game to be more refreshing and new, instead we get simplified Fallout 3 on the Skyrim engine 1.01. Fallout 4 feels like a huge framework for mods ,where Bethesda will use it to milk it to the end. Because they have the endless supply of the people whos \"Fallout 3 \" was the first fallout and they think Fallout 4 is the amazing piece of art. Its good game, it has some good moments but there aren't many of them sadly.  No idea how people can defend the dialogue wheel in this game, where every option leads to the same outcome. Why even bother recording 4 different lines if they result in the same outcome?   Also again empty wastelands with no human progress done all through 210 years? No estabilished cities? Wasteland is full of raiders? Who the hell breeds them? Its like there is somone who breeds them only to flood the wasteland to give the vault dwellers some loot and experience. Why no overgrown cities with the nature? Trees ,grass , vines? In Fallout 2 after merely 70 years after the bombs dropped you had already big estabilished cities and various cultures spread across the wasteland.  I know that bethesda wants to keep to the '50 feels but it gets only weirder. Maybe its because every few years a Vault Dweller wakes up from his Vault and wrecks *poop* upon the wasteland, reducing all human progress again to 0. That makes a perfect sense isn't it?  I gave it recommendation because it has modding support ( and fantastic written Nick Valentine which I hope he wil get his own story in the upcoming DLCs ), otherwise this game would be dead after few months and forever forgotten. But mods can't fix the core game problems, Fallout 4 is a huge step backwards and I really hope that the future expansions or next Fallouts will be improved not streamlined.","hours":114.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9154445708531381,"review":"Very immersive sandbox open-world survival game.  It started on release with a lot of issues. At this time I gave it a thumbs down since it was stuttering and had big issues with mouse acceleration. But since then developers have fixed those and the game is now overall excellent from music to graphics, to mod support.  I played it myself principally with 3D vision and got very much immersed in it. I like the role playing elements mixed with some decent FPS gameplay. When it comes to length, it is to say that it is huge and most of the time you just wander around, enjoy the scenery, the atmosphere, collect stuff and totally forget that there are story missions or side missions.   Like any other Bethesda game it might be sometimes a bit difficult and you die fast, don't have enough ammo, etc. But you will get used to it.  It truly is a AAA game which is now free for the weekend and this is a huge step by Bethesda I appreciate a lot. I think they sold the game to everyone that was on the fence. So nothing to lose here for them.  The only thing I am waiting for now is Fallout 4 VR. And I am hoping they will bring it still this year. Dear Bethesda, it has not to be perfect on release, just make a Early Access out of it. Work on it step after step. This might become THE VR adventure title the community is so much waiting for.   RECOMMENDED and even more recommended if FALLOUT 4 VR would be for free for owners or at least on discount or if it just would come out soon.","hours":45.1}
{"funny_percent":0.2857142857142857,"helpful_percent":0.7972423358066952,"review":"They call me the wanderer Yeah, the wanderer I roam around, around, around.    ","hours":45.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8027923425603277,"review":"Thanks to the free weekend and 67% off, I gave this game a go. Even though most of the recent reviews were less than flattering of Fallout 4, I figured \"hey what the heck\".  I have actually enjoyed it so far (16hours gameplay as of right now). It feels an awful lot like FarCry 2-4 with a lot less game ruining monotony. Don’t get me wrong, there is a lot of doing the same kind of task over and over again but it's different enough to mean you don't want to put your head through the screen like FarCry 2-4.  The playable area is pretty impressive, as I have only hit one of the invisible walls once whilst getting completely lost finding my way back to Sanctuary.  I've got to say that the hardcore fanbois of Fallout really have painted this as the Deus Ex 2 or F1 2015 of the series. It simply isn't. What it is, is a little less gruesome rendition of the series. Which I personally appreciate. It has it's bugs eg. when you place an object on terrain that isn’t completely flat, it sits on one edge and floats in the air on the other 3. Or when the dog (Dogmeat) runs into a rusted up car body, the car body is pushed around, not the dog.  Do these detail glitches kill the game, no. Yes it is a little aesthetically displeasing, and in some cases humorous but not game killing at all.  The story is pretty vague, you get thrown into a world that has very little forward loading, but once you emerge from the vault there is very little story to follow. I could imagine that if you were actually cast into the role in reality there wouldn't be a narrator close by to fill you in with what's happened anyway. So again, not a deal breaker (and that's from a guy who LOVES a strong story line).  And finally to the often whinged about choices available in the game. Yes, there are limitations. There are things that Bethesda doesn't allow you to do; my favourite complaint from one fanboi was that \"he couldn't shoot the children in the game, if he wanted\"... seriously! If this is your biggest concern... maybe it's time to go and get professional help. You've got issues.  I like the game, its fun and with plenty to do, build and explore.   Would I have bought it at full price? Probably not, but this genre is not my most enjoyable, it's something I will play on and off when the desire strikes.","hours":219.7}
{"funny_percent":0.013513513513513514,"helpful_percent":0.8921661900451888,"review":"It's very hard to review Fallout 4 without comparing it to the previous games. New Vegas is my all time favorite Fallout game and one of the greatest RPGs I have ever played.  Fallout 4 is not New Vegas. It was not made by Obsidian. This is 100% a Bethesda game.  With that said, I have put 70 hours into the base game, and will continue to play through the DLC after writing this. I have all of the base game achievements, so I think I have a good understanding about all this game has to offer.  Positives:  -World building. This is something Bethesda has always done well. You know you are in a post-apocalyptic world the moment you step out of Vault 111, and the feeling of helplessness is seen all over the Commonwealth as you travel further into Boston.  -The Atmosphere is fantastic. There are plenty of gloomy and foggy nights to make the outside world spooky. The ambient music just adds to this.  -Exploration is probably the best part of the game. This is no surprise, and you will find yourself spending dozens of hours wandering around old parking garages and abandoned factories just hoping to find some lore backstory and loot.  -Combat is significantly improved over New Vegas and Fallout 3. It feels a lot less janky and more responsive.  -Weapon and armor mods add much needed customization to your gear. And not having to constantly repair allows you to focus on making the best piece of gear possible.  -Settlement building is a lot more interesting than I initially thought. You are really given a lot of tools to build whatever buildings you want.  -Plenty of companions to wander the wasteland with. They each have their own set of traits and interesting personality. They aren't Mass Effect 2 level characters, but it's a nice bonus.  Negatives:  -The \"RPG\" portion of this game is about as light as you can get. It's like they spent the budget on fixing the combat and adding a Minecraft meta-game into Fallout, but completely lost the plot on what originally made the series popular. Here's a hint: It wasn't the feel of the combat. It was allowing a character to get out of a tense situation purely through dialog if they wanted. Or killing everyone in the main city because they felt like it and were role playing a lunatic.  -Character building has taken a nose dive into irrelevant. I remember being able to talk with scientists while having 100 science and 10 intellect back in New Vegas and feeling like my choice to role play a scientist was perfectly acceptable.  I have 11 INT and am maxed out on most science perks in Fallout 4 and I can not think of a single situation where it was useful during a quest or when talking to a person.  Remember how cool it was to get some additional information about a quest by using your 40/100 Barter skill in New Vegas? Remember when you built a 1 INT character in the original Fallout that could not complete basic sentences? Remember when you could use your 100 speech to beat the end quest without firing a single bullet?   None of these are a thing in Fallout 4. All you have is charisma that gets you out of the occasional dialog option, but offers very little else.  -Settlements are not as interesting after playing past the 10 hour mark. Initially they are really cool, but they don't really make sense mechanically. The settlements themselves are filled with no-name NPCs literally called \"Settler\" that have no personality and are forgotten almost instantly.   Gameplay wise, there's no benefit to building out a settlement to completion. Stores were a missed opportunity to at least make a cool little economic and business mini-game out of the investment, but instead they just offer another vendor you can sell your 32 aluminum cans to.   Overall, Fallout 4 is a competent game that continues to split the series in both a positive and negative path.   On one hand, Bethesda continues to make a cinematic world with countless adventures and plenty of nice feeling combat.   However, what they continue to lose is the magic that made the original Fallout and Fallout 2 game stand out over 20 years ago: The feeling of playing the game how you want to, and allowing the character to comfortably use their skills to overcome every obstacle.  8/10 (I am very biased to Elder Scrolls/Fallout)","hours":87}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9348518796070893,"review":"I play exclusively at The Elder Scroll but i try my first fallout... And I am totally overwhelmed  - The craft is accessible and fun - Finally a real reason to pick up everything found - Dynamic and nervous fighting - Lots of things to explore, to see, to read - Huge lifetime - Immersive  Anyway I'm happy to play Fallout 4","hours":60.6}
{"funny_percent":0.1111111111111111,"helpful_percent":0.87420406034278,"review":"I already made an in depth review of this game on my Youtube channel, however the PC version is the version to get. Take note that most flag ship GPU's of this writing still can't push this game maxed settings at 60 FPS constant, you need to disable a few things both on AMD and Nvidia's side. But you can get a steady 60 FPS if you do adjust some things.  This is Fallout 3 without Karma and less RPG elements but more streamlined combat and more action.  If that sounds good to you, buy it, hours of entertainment await you.  See you in the future, from Vault Tech!","hours":215.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9728075098089617,"review":"Probablly one of the my best desicions was getting this game. It's not same like ol' Fallout 3 and New Vegas. But it is pretty enjoyable, fresh and interesting.","hours":146.2}
{"funny_percent":0.16666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.9608771719188979,"review":"Better than New Vegas and every thumbs down from you Obsidian fanboys just proves me right","hours":179.5}
{"funny_percent":3.5595531887258085,"helpful_percent":0.7246263132688254,"review":"I've nearly finished making my character.","hours":1995.4}
{"funny_percent":0.058823529411764705,"helpful_percent":0.8652899678323296,"review":"กราฟฟิคสวยดี เนื้อเรื่องยาวน่าติดตามเป็นเกม open world ชวนหลงไหลไม่ต่างกับ mgs v เลยทีเดียวสำหรับใครที่เล่นภาคเก่ามาแล้วจะรู้สึกชื่นชอบเกมนี้แน่นอน เพราะภาคมาใหม่นั้นมีลูกเล่นมาเพื่มเยอะมากน่าให้ลองเล่นซะจริงๆ  ข้อดีและข้อเสีย +open world +มี mission ให้ทำเยอะมาก +เก็บเลเวล +ภาพสวยมาก สำหรับคนปรับภาพสูงสุด -ยังมี fps ตกเป็นช่วงๆ ลองซื้อมาลองเล่นกันได้ ราคาอาจจะสูงไปหน่อย ","hours":21.4}
{"funny_percent":0.028622540250447227,"helpful_percent":0.8514990000394584,"review":"I have played Fallout 4 two hundred twenty-five hours and counting. I wanted to write this review well after Fallout 4 had been released, all of the DLC had been released, and when the modding community had really had a good opportunity to get a foothold in. Fallout 4 is an amazing game all in all. To those people who were giving this game 0's and 10's on the very first day it was released, within the first 10 minutes of playing, all I got to say is that those reviews don't help ANYONE. A game like this takes time to grow.  Gameplay Gameplay probably features the biggest changes and improvements of the Fallout series. Improvements can be found from various aspects of the game, from combat, exploration, crafting and character building. Compared to Fallout 3, the combat is much more responsive, faster and dynamic. Enemy variation is amazing in Fallout 4 and it was often surprising to see new features and abilities added to already known enemy types. Crafting is one of the biggest and greatest part of Fallout 4. As soon I saw the new crafting system of Fallout 4 in E3, I knew it was going to be great and sure wasn’t disappointed. With Automatron DLC you can also build your own robots, and go far as building your own kickass Sentry Bot. With the improved crafting looting and exploration became more important and rewarding. Junk rarity was also in great balance, I often found myself missing needed materials which then motivated me go out to explore the wasteland. With the new crafting system also came the settlement mode, which allowed players to create their own towns and settlements. To me the vanilla settlement mode was dull in many ways. Either way the settlement mode can a lot of fun with mods, allowing you to actually craft something genuine and incredible. The leveling and perk system was also redesigned. While there was nothing wrong with the previous system, the new system was a welcome change.  Atmosphere In general, the atmosphere in Fallout 4 is subtler than in previous entries. Commonwealth felt much brighter and hopeful than the desolate Capital Wasteland or Mojave Desert. This is likely due to the more vibrant weathers. To improve immersion, Bethesda did a nice job of reducing the amount of loading screens. Abandoned towns now could be explored without having to struggle through the 5 second loading screen every now and then. Story and Quests I personally enjoyed the main plot, mainly because I didn’t expect much of it I got what I expected. Most of the main storyline was very good, it definitely had some memorable moments, difficult choices and the total length of the story wasn’t too bad. As for side content and quests, which were usually good but often hard to find. Radiant quests in Fallout 4 have a large role. The highly criticized voiced protagonist and the new dialogue system didn’t bother me, which did undoubtedly pose problems. But to me they were welcome changes, which felt like taking one step back and two steps forward. Overall While Fallout 4 did sacrifice some of its predecessors RPG elements, it still turned out to be one of the best open-world shooter that I’ve played. Fallout did change for better or worse, but as for me, it’s still a Fallout game, and a damn good one.","hours":237.9}
{"funny_percent":0.045454545454545456,"helpful_percent":0.8351226633663402,"review":"First off, if you have never played any of the previous fallout game's, and like sandbox gameplay, like shooter game's plus with some rpg elements then just go and get this. Mixed feelings here, but even tho with all the dumbed down things the game still goes out to be pretty fun and valid for its price. ( Buyer beware ) I'd say grab it on a sale, even tho with the $60 price tag the game still provides enough value.  While taking a more streamlined approach this time, to appeal to larger audiences.  It isn't all that bad sure many disappointments but many improvements also as well its a best story here for a bethesda game.  The bad - Blurry texture's. - Terrible U-i. - Many A-i bug's. - Some poor pc-controls - Many clipping issues. - Physics related bugs. - Many shallow side-quests. - Lacking dialogue, not many choices. - No fov-slider, missing options. - A horrendous amount of loading screen's. - Many performance issues specially in cities. - Poor facial animations and lip-syncing at time's. - Skill-tree and character progression has been dumbed down by much degree.  The Good + Mod support. + Good hit-detection. + One of the best sky-box. + Great music and sounds. + A big variety of weapons. + Beautiful scenery at times. + One of the best character editor. + ( Some ) pretty good side-quest's. + A bigger amount of companions. + Overall really enjoyable game-play. + Settlements, farming and much more. + Vastly improved combat, no longer feel's wonky. + Main story has it's good moments, not the best but still. + Weapons are really well modeled, same for the animations. + Many new mechanics, as well a inclusion of radiation storm. + Legendary equipment items,weapons etc carried over from skyrim. + Great presentation, the artworks, the icons,animations for the all things. + All thing's to craft up & modify, weapon's,armor's,chem's,grenade's & power armor's. + Good sand-box game-play,due to the fact you can make your own structures and so on. + Lot's to explore, there's many thing's which aren't even marked on the map as place's where you can find some neat & fine stuff. + Great particle effects, from laser beams to explosions.As well you can destroy cars now. + The concept of power armor has been significantly improved, no longer it feels like just a re skin of a usual armor. Instead its got its own hud, a power management system, and lots more.  In-depth So here we have one of the most hyped game of 2015 it was, did it live up? Certainly not for many. But the game isn't bad specifically people who haven't played the previous ones I can say will enjoy, as well including old fans who have a love and hate relationship with the game. But one thing's for certain this game in average won't provide the fun of making a second play through as we did in the previous fallout's.   The A.i, It's one of the major frustration's here, from companions to enemies.  Companions will get stuck in stairs,walls,not get in elevator. In all they won't follow around perfect,they won't be of much help, they will aim badly.  General npcs,enemies. They will sometimes not be able to find the path, or just glitch out. This is what's called poor A.I simply. I know, I know it's a huge game so it should be common but come on after many years they still haven't programmed the companions to get out of doors.  In all it's not that bad, but it adds up to frustration specially with the companions. While other than that it's fine generally in combat as well there's more options now on what a companion can do  Muddy textures, it feels as if a blur thing is always turned on. Hdr specifically in daytime is way to bright really not suiting for the eyes. Easily one of the best explosion effects. Night specially does look good, great sky-box. Much of the particle effects have been seriously improved.  In total, the graphics aren't really bad as people say sure not for today's standard but pretty big improvement.  The collusion detection is messed up, it's always been like that over the course of so many year's they still haven't managed to fix it up.. Cats lying on peoples heads, dogs going under the ground, things getting attached to npcs not really kidding one time a hellmat got attached onto the face of my dog....  Fallout 4  A Screenshot of Fallout 4 By: Telep0rting Joe   Fallout 4  A Screenshot of Fallout 4 By: Telep0rting Joe   Now lets talk about optimization, is it optimized well ? Or just a average console port ? Well unfortunately it's the second answer, it's a bad console port but not as bad as arkham night that's just another story, but here the game is 30 fps locked, requiring you to change it up from files, really ? And there is many, many areas which lag for many people such as a specific tower area and so on. As well people with monitors that have more refresh rate then 70 are in bad luck as running the game more than 75 fps causes the physics to break-up.  As well many bad technical problems, after a month or so i wanted to play the game, it just wouldn't give me any audio. I've tried doing the directx fix, the audio settings but nothing's worked at all, as well there's much other problems like these.  It can be a lot better, as well with the 30 fps lock for starters adds up to similar as a console port.  Character Progression Its really down-graded from all the previous games, the special skill things are gone, take the small-frame or many other ones for example. In over all it's just been dumbed down in terms of the fallout games.  But it's not bad actually compared to other games out there it offers a lot it's just not in-tune with the fallout games.  Down-graded from the previous games for sure, but it still offers a lot compared to other games in the market. Could been better but what there is isn't bad  The dialogue, being the main thing of all the previous games, its just disappointing, just to take a more casual and similar to mass effect game's approach, this doesn't help at all. The choices are really limited compared to almost all of the series, seriously lacking.  While not terrible, but \" lacking \" is the word i'll use  Now lets jump to the conclusion.  While a disappointment for many including myself, its still a fine game despite its technical problem's and so. Why?  Because i can still go on my own adventures, and not give a frick about any story or any missions, i can be that, i can go out and collect good♥♥♥♥♥♥ i can go out with my companions and raid the♥♥♥♥♥♥out of raider-\"scum\".  The sandbox is also really great, specially with the building mechanics now, there's a lot of variety turrets, houses, defenses etc.   As well with the inclusion of many new mechanics, it really adds up for a more fresher experience, radiation storms, crafting, base building and so on.  In all while taking a different turn from the others in the series, its a really enjoyable game, there's easily more than +50 hours game-play value here, which in terms is perfectly appropriate for a $60 dollar game. You'll have many adventures, you'll have many disappointments as you progress, but in the end you are gonna still have fun which is why we play video-games.  ==================================================================   Click me and follow us as Curator ","hours":63.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8919217368635176,"review":"It just works... most of the time, But I still love it, just wished the textures was not so smooth in most places, it's Post Apocalyptic, not supposed to have clean textures, needs more dirt!  But I still like the game.  Edit: To be honest, modding this game brings a breath of fresh air.","hours":773.1}
{"funny_percent":0.06493506493506493,"helpful_percent":0.7019777973119694,"review":"Im a little on the fence with this one because i enjoy the world, i enjoy the guns for the most part, and i enjoy the combat system but the story was a bit meh to me but the more i played the more i got into it and i had alot of fun although i wish they had a better speech system even though i kinda like that my character can talk but kinda don't because i like to imagine what he/she sounds like but maybe thats just me. I do wish obsidean makes the next game although i'm begining to doubt it but it's a wishful dream but take my review how you want.","hours":54.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8856914309057323,"review":"Fallout 4 is, in the simplest of reviews, worth playing. Whether you're a die hard Fallout fan or new to the series, you'll likely play a few hours and feel like your money was well spent.  There are many amazing things about the newest installment in this prolific series, but some experienced fans the franchise might feel that the cons outweigh the pros. For me personally, somewhat of a casual, I find myself eager to punch out every day so I can get some quality time in the wasteland.  TL;DR, if you're here for the gun play, the graphics, crafting, character builds, or constructing one hell of a base of operations, FO4 will be your jam. On the other hand, if you're here mostly for the lore, character development, immersive interaction with the world, or the \"choose your own adventure\" feel that previous titles in the franchise delivered, you might want to take a step back, firmly grasp your expectations and pull them down quite a few notches, or pass on this title entirely for now.  What's Good  Weapons, Armor, and Crafting - This is where FO4 really shines. Modular weaponry and armor has added so much depth to the mechanical side of Fallout. Being able to tweak your favorite weapons to your exact specifications and play style is a treat only moders are used to indulging in, but Bethesda gave us an OEM experience we can all enjoy. Armor is nearly the same way, however not as modular as weaponry in a vanilla (read: unmodded) build. This ultimately gives you the feeling that your loadout is truly yours. One interesting aspect is that nearly every single item you pick up in the wasteland has a use in crafting.  Power Armor on the other hand... Holy fission-powered-mechs, Fat Man. Power Armor is no longer just dead weight in your inventory when not in use. It's a full, standalone mechanized vehicle that you can craft, customize, and drive. The animation while entering/exiting the armor is almost as addicting as actually using it out in the Commonwealth to lay waste to the unholy abominations that dare cross your path.  Combat - That brings us to the more actionable side of the above. Combat in Fallout 4 feels pretty similar to previous installments in the 3D era of the franchize, but overall does it much better. The engine feels much smoother, the gunplay more natural, and the enemies more life like. Enemies have actual AI, taking cover at appropriate times, coordinating their efforts, and overall effectively laying waste to anyone who dares venture outside the confines of their vault. Whether you're addicted to V.A.T.S., or a 1st/3rd person purist, Fallout 4 has a lot to offer you in the combat department.  Settlement Building - When you're tired after a long day of injecting as much lead, laser burns, or teddy bears (yes, teddy bears) as possible into your irradiated opponents, there's much to be done at home. Protecting settlements, satisfying its settlers, and most importantly, building them entirely adds a whole new (optional) experience for Fallout fans. I honestly had a bit of difficulty determining if building belonged in the pros or the cons, but in the end, it's a winner in my heart.  Despite the clunky, snap-based building mechanics that are often difficult, yielding arbitrary behavior, and frequently downright frustrating, being able to craft your own home in the wasteland (along with the homes of many, many others) is one of the most rewarding experiences I've had so far with the game. Admittedly even in my first playthrough, I rely heavily on mods to truly deliver the building experience I craved. But that's the beauty of Bethesda games - the modding community will always be there to more than make up for Beth's shortcomings.  Graphics - The wasteland, both pre and post war, looks astonishing. Lighting and scenery really takes Fallout to a crazy new level in this installment. The shadows remain blocky and artificial up close, and the urban areas are about as optimized as any 1st world government, but I can't help but find myself just looking around and taking in the scenery. Attention to detail is something Bethesda has always done well, and here they do not disappoint.  What's Bad  User Interface - No surprise here. Fallout 4 is yet another game designed for console and lazily ported to PC with little to no attention to the user interface during the change over. Clunky UI and menus, awful inventory management, and an overall \"I should have a controller\" feel to everything but controlling the character itself is getting old.   Characters and World Interaction - One thing we've all gotten used to in Fallout is the ability to shape our own character, and define how we're presented to the other people in the world. Want to play the fool? Do it! Want to be a completely evil jerkface? Do it! Want to play the hero everyone knows and loves? Here's your cape and exterior-underwear, friend!  Well, you can kiss all that goodbye in Fallout 4 where you're restricted to playing the hero only. The way you act has no effect on the world nor its inhabitants. You're limited to 4 paraphrased responses in every single interaction and the magic of making choices is entirely dead. Aside from simply building homes, you no longer shape the world; you simply follow along and take orders, peering through the eyes of a protagonist that speaks on your behalf. This not only severely cripples what many find critical to their FO experience, but it pretty much eliminates any replay value the game could have had.  It might also be worth noting that the voice acting so far has felt very uninspired and rushed. I often find myself paying attention to the quality of the VA vs the content of their words.  In conclusion…  As mentioned above, I love playing FO4. At the time of this writing, I’ve logged only a mere 20 hours but see myself packing in at least another 80-100 more. Not only is the mostly-vanilla experience enough to keep me hooked, but the incredibly massive modding community will drive this thing home, clearly marking it as worth the 60 caps for me.  If you find yourself feeling like exceptional mechanics and gameplay can't make up for a lack of character development and the ability to shape your own adventure, you might want to pass on this title. At least until DLC and/or the modding community gets involved.","hours":39.9}
{"funny_percent":0.6666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.9219937478824533,"review":"You can either retain the ability to earn achievements or get a mod that makes you completely nude.  ","hours":66.2}
{"funny_percent":1.5,"helpful_percent":0.9611631431399957,"review":"spends hours creating me and my fictional wife in character creation....  wife dies 10 minutes into the game... Totally worth it   10/10","hours":233.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8260765718509737,"review":"Whenever i start this game back up it's suddenly 12 hours later and i haven't eaten all day.  you know you want this game.  10 out of 10 would have no life again","hours":2074.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.953562800949441,"review":"You know why...","hours":4.7}
{"funny_percent":0.0703125,"helpful_percent":0.730882320664365,"review":"______FALLOUT 4______  That name used to mean something less than a year ago. It wasn't a game, back then. It was an ideal, a game that existed only because we wanted it to. The world would be better with it's presence, we thought. Gaming would never be the same if it appeared; like an atom bomb, it would change the way we looked at things forever.  It has now been over a year since that name was brought from shadow, to spotlight, and now discussion. What do we have now, six DLCs down the road and plenty of time to sink in hour upon hour?  PROSITIVES:  THE COLOR BLUE: While New Vegas might have been in a dusty desert, brown in excess is never a good thing. Fallout 4 finally gives us some richer colors to stare at. Metal foundries turned Raider Strongholds have fiery hues to inflame our anger towards injustice. The countryside has pleasantly clean skies and lush vegitation in the remains of old highways and parks. Rad storms and the poisoned Glowing Sea cast a harsh green glow onto the landscape, flashes of lightning jolting us from our idle stares into the maelstrom above.  ACTUAL SHOOTER COMBAT: At long last, 3D Fallout shoots like it should. We can sprint for the first time, quickly moving from cover to play that deadly game of bullet ping-pong. Recoil feels right, and moving guns with a controller isn't linear and stiff, but fluid and responsive, allowing for quick manuvers of sight-hip-repeat. Grenades can be tossed with your rifle out, allowing you to coax opponents out of cover and into your waiting line-of-sight. These tenets of design may be standard on other shooters, but they were lacking in Fallout. And now, it's here and (almost) perfect.  A USE FOR EVERYTHING IN THE GAME: Cigarettes, electronics, and chemicals won't be the only things you pick up anymore. Bethesda has put purpose behind every coffee cup, every discarded glass, and more. To let your creative desires flow in your canvases of guns and housing, you'll need the right materials. Every peice of junk you come across has little salvagable components within themselves that you can then use to make useful things. Want to construct a wonderful bungalow for your character out of a gas station? You'll need steel and wood-and both of things exist in clipboards and tin cans. With the exception of folders, you'll find yourself reaching for whatever isn't welded to the floor.  AN ARSENAL AS CREATIVE AS YOU: Previously, every raider has the same rifle as a soldier. Fallout 4's crafting system allows for what New Vegas tried to do: mods that made your gun yours. Enemies can have weapons creatively-tuned or plain as paper; one raider's ramshackle rifle has a tuned receiver or a hair-trigger, while another's Pipe Pistol is just a tool for the job. But with the right perks and parts, you can make very special armor and weapons for yourself. Why have a Standard Laser Rifle when you can tweak it to scatter beams or incinerate to disintigrate? Why have just a Leather Chestpeice when you can shadow it to sneak and stab? Your character can be as unique as your tools.  BETHESDA'S BEST ARMOR SYSTEM YET: Fallout 3 and NV had only three slots: Face, Hat, and Body. Skyrim got closer, segmenting the body into Greaves, Boots, Torso, and with Necklaces and Rings to boot. Now we have something magical: from top to bottom, Hat, Eyes, Face, Left arm, Torso, Right arm, Left leg, and Right leg, and a new \"underarmor\" slot for close-skin clothing that can be worn underneath your armor. Mix and match for effectiveness or looks, but regardless, it's diverse.  BEYOND THE BIG FINALE: The game will go as long as you let it. No DLCs required to expand the level cap-it's already cranked up to infinity. Build the most impossibly powerful individual for as long as you keep playing. And when the ending hits, your survivor keeps walking to mop up leftover quest and locked perks.  FROM COMPANIONS TO SOULMATES: Past games had their share of good pals to support the sadness of the wastes, and this game keeps that bar high. Each companion has their own stories, likes, dislikes, dreams and hopes. They routinely make subtle movements and little dialogue quirks that bring real people out of virtual constructs. And with their perks being unlocks rather than presence-based, you're welcome to try them all.  A FLAVORED CAST OF VOICE ACTORS: Bethesda's past ventures often had small crews of common voices, but they've done something with this one that prevents dialogue from going stale audio-wise. I can't quite put my finger on it...bigger cast? Similar voices? Regardless, it's better here.  PLASTIC SURGERY REFINED: The character creator in this game's absolutely phenomenal. Dials and numbers become a stretch-and-pull plethora of wonderful options of any face and body shape you can think of. Channing Tatum or horrible scar-rack? Your choice.  CONNATIVES  THE STORY: Truth be told, it's not that bad. It has about one good twist, but that's it. Granted, the main story wasn't the spotlight in these games.  PRESTON AND HIS MERRY MEN: Alright, the Minutemen are a great way of discovering workshoops and places to build settlements. This is ruined by the fact you have to babysit your territory while the okay-companion Preston is forced to become a pez-dispenser of \"do this' quest. Trimming down the quest he gives or the amount of workshops you can have and use would easily make this better to bear, but presently it's a pain that hinders your desire to build in different places.  POWER ARMOR: In addition to canonicly making no sense at all, the Power Armor system, while cool and interesting, isn't extrememly needed or even utilized. You can mix and match peices onto a frame, and there's an alright system in place for making your own extreme exosuit, but your parts can take damage and break off of you, requiring more scrap to fix. You're also slower in it and using it will require Fusion Cores, a costly fuel source that makes constant use an impossibliity. By the time you have plenty of gas, your player will often be stronger apart than with Power Armor.  OLD PROBLEMS THAT LINGER: New songs sit in the radio-about two of them. The rest are re-used from older games, leading to a quickly-annoying earworm generator that's even more grating than the previous titles. AI still gets stuck in places and onto things, animations are still not flawless (but better.) This is the only Fallout game I had where I actually completed every quest in one run, leaving nothing to do. The Armor system doesn't allow you to wear EVERYTHING (would it kill to make all common clothes underarmor?) And of course, bugs on bugs.  THE DIALOGUE WHEEL: In an attempt to trim dialogue, Bethesda made every encounter have four dialogue options. This wouldn't be as bad as it is if every option you choose is described in two words or less, so you'll never know exactly what you'll say. The biggest gripe is the \"sarcastic\" option. It's never described as \"yes\" or \"no\", just \"sarcastic.\" It's ridiculous.  THE VERDICT  APPROVED-Worth a buy.  A year later, this game is still giving. Still, I find new things to do, new contraptions to build, and new adventures even after plenty of hours more than my friends. Though all in all, I have to say this is a weaker RPG for Bethesda. It's a greater shooter, no doubt, but it's no RPG, and for some people, that's all Fallout was. I understand that frustration.  But in all of the bad, remember this: this game almost went the route of No Man's Sky. Hype infatuated so high, hopes set to an unreachble bar, that when the product finally dropped, the flaws that were there clashed so intensly with our impossible ideal. Now, UNLIKE No Man's Sky, this game actually did meet many of it's promises, thankfully. But make no mistake, this is not the game you see in the Announcement Trailer.  At least, not without Far Harbor.","hours":343}
{"funny_percent":0.04679457182966776,"helpful_percent":0.8156540318086071,"review":"People need to calm down. Yes the dialogue only has 4 options, but 90% of all dialogue in the other Fallout games had 3 to 4 options. The dialogue is my biggest complaint, but It's not that big a of a deal in retrospect. My other complaint is that quests often have 1 ending, I would love to choose from several endings but I do not expect this for every quest.  The Game is beautiful, it's got a great feel to it and I love the way the world is set up. The dirt may be a boring brown but you find that the Post/Pre-War buildings have a nice color scheme and It makes the game that much more nice looking. As for people who are underwhelmed by the map, C'mon? If you want to be underwhelmed look at New Vegas. The City was an empty pile with 50% of the buildings being unenterable. It had a total of 6 nice looking buildings, That was it!  The Power Armor makes you feel like an absolute BEAST! I don't mind that they gave me a Minigun and Power Armor in the first 20 mins of the game because the Armor is in bad shape to start with (and after killing a Death Claw it's in worse shape) and after killing everything in that mission I only had 21 shots left on the gun. I droped it because who wants to carry around a useless (and heavy) weapon. The people who are questioning the use of Power Armor in the first 20 mins should take into consideration that it's a way of giving you an incentive to find, craft, and customize your own set(s). In Fallout New Vegas I never bothered with Power Armor because I already had some cool cowboy stuff, and it didn't do that much for me anyways. Not to mention that it looked pretty bad too.   I don't mind the Perk system because they were always the best part about leveling up anyways. I like looking at all the options that are placed before me and planning out my character before I even hit level 5. For this reason alone, I do not agree with the people claiming that \"Fallout 4 is not an RPG\" off of the grounds that dialogue choice is limited. You get to make your character look the way you want, fight the way you want, join the factions you want, and so on. You get to create a character who is individual to you, just because he/she can't say exactly what you want to say doesn't mean that the game is not an RPG.   Now that I'm done defending the game from common criticism lets talk about what the game did exceptionally well at. The game has amazing sound design, I'll be walking along and all of a sudden I'll hear far off shots. The fact that I can tell what guns are being used, how many people are shooting at eachother and how far off they are from me speaks valumes for the game's sounds. This skill comes in handy more times then you might think.  Another thing That I like is the looting system. The game feels so much more seemless now that I don't have to look through body after body to find nothing useful. Instead I am given a nice UI that tells me exactly whats is available to loot. I can also choose to go into a more indepth UI if I want to.  Character/Enemy design looks and feels great. Ghouls look and act far more \"feral\". Mole rats have a nice little add on with the ability to go underground and pop out at you. Your Dog now has the ability to pin people down so you can shoot them (Team work is actually a thing now!) and I am overall impressed with how far they came from the \"Run at the enemy and block your friend\" companions from Fallout and the Elderscrolls games alike.   Finnally, You can have lasting change in a Fallout game. The fact that you can build your own settlment, is the largest change in a Fallout game since the destruction of Megaton. It adds just as much content as being able to say something new, and I like the change. The next related topic is the crafting system, which is extensive. Build what you want were you want. it's a great feeling and I love it.  Cons:  - \"I wanna say something else!\" - \"Put the gun, on your back!\" (Gun randomly appears when you have to use it) - Lack of Quest endings choices - Repetative Quests (Like some Skyrim Quests)  Pros: - Looks Great - Sounds Great - (Seemless) Feels great! - SOOO much crafting - Lasting impression on the world!  This Game IS an RPG, and it stands strong on it's own. I like it! :)","hours":221}
{"funny_percent":0.48148148148148145,"helpful_percent":0.7895116083409112,"review":"I had to go and resuce my son taken by a bad guys  I've only stayed for a while and bulited a big fortress.  Don't worry son,daddy reach 50 level and will save you !","hours":126.7}
{"funny_percent":0.2,"helpful_percent":0.8932867331075613,"review":"Post apocalyptic RPG of an undiscovered world (No TV series, no movies ), great skill system with great options of role playing. Character creations is awesome. Musics are tranquil and dynamic. Full of adventure and randomness in a legendary open world. First person and 3rd person shooter. Looting and customising yourself after killing an enemy from vast range of items.  You can build, craft, upgrade weapons, armor. You can build settlements.Customise your own army in a way and dress and equip them however you like. Make business and design trade routes. Design factories and build warehouses. No mods needed to play game.   There should be multiplayer of it someday for the intended players.  Graphics (Today) 10  Sound & Music 10\t Content & Mechanics 10  Replayability 10 Fun Factor 9 Controls & Playability 9\t Story & Scenario 9\t Depth & Diversity 10  100 Scale 96 Editors Will 95 Total 77 / 80","hours":223.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.839639828770504,"review":"Pros Large open world gameplay with loads of nooks and crannies to explore Great Visuals & Graphics Perk system, in my opinion, has improved since the last titles No level cap Game Lore is quite interesting for me this time round, Compared to New Vegas - I actually found myself wanting to find out more and more about characters and their pasts and the stories which follow them. Settlement building can be fun and you can get really creative with it Character customisation is pretty neat and has come a long way (it's similar to the Sims 4 though in my opinion with the sculpting method) Creatures such as ghouls and insects have had a massive overhaul and look quite polished Weapon mods - there's bloody loads of them and you can mix and match things to create your ideal weapon Power armor mods are handy and you find yourself making different builds of power armor for different situations.   Cons There's quite a few bugs and glitches that modders have had to fix (some things have been bugged since day 1 and the developers still havent bothred fixing them) Settlement building can get really tedious and object placing is horrendous! I really do suggest mods to be able to place things EXACTLY where you want them - It can also get quite repetitive and you end up finding yourself building the same old crap over and over again in different locations. The higher your level gets the more that it becmones ridiculously easy, I wish enemies (like super mutants and raiders) would level with you to keep the game challenging once you progress. I know its not game breaking, but if you're like me and like listening to the radio via the pipboy on your adventures, the stations are really repetitive and you find that by 6 - 7 hours in you have memorised the lyrics to all of the songs and you will be humming them for days (but thank the lord for radio mods over at the Nexus)   All in all, if it wasn't for mods, I would have put this back on the shelf again to play at a later date as I recently got back into it after installing loads of mods to fix the things I didnt like back at release in November. ","hours":122.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7602881023653143,"review":"The Fallout series is a legendary one that really needs no introduction. The franchise was established in 1997 by Interplay Entertainment, the first two titles being top-down, isometric, open world, post-apocalyptic survival RPGs. They laid the foundation for an entirely new breed of RPG games, and set a new standard for story depth, immersion, and interesting gameplay. During the 11 year gap between Fallout 2 and 3, Bethesda acquired the rights to the franchise.  A five year wait between major releases now sees us with Fallout 4, which takes place in Boston, Massachusetts. The year is 2077, the first time a game in the series has started prior to the war, and life is going great; you and your partner just had a baby boy named Shaun, who isn't even a year old yet. A local Vault Tec representative soon shows up at your house in the quaint suburb of Sanctuary Hills, and he sells you three spots in the local vault, Vault 111, in case of the off chance of nuclear fallout. Not five minutes after he leaves, nuclear bombs are being dropped by an unknown source. You and your family flee to Vault 111, and take the elevator underground just as a giant mushroom cloud appears in the distance; the effects of which sweep overhead, wiping out everything and everyone in the area above.  Luckily for you, once you escape the vault some 210 years later, you find that your house keeping Mr. Handy robot, Codsworth, is still functional and helps set you on the path to finding like-minded survivors. From here on out, you will meet a plethora of interesting characters, some of whom will become your companion later down the road if you choose to take them in to your settlement. Some people are notably let down by the \"lack\" of interactive characters in this particular title, and that unlike previous games the people in the towns have been replaced with generic settlers instead of nearly endless NPCs that can be talked to.  Speaking of settlements, this newly introduced sector of gameplay is really one of the biggest down points of Fallout 4. You will establish multiple settlements throughout the wasteland, and whenever enemies assault one of your settlements, you will have a mission pop up to help go and defend it. This could happen any time, whether you're in the middle of an important main mission, or just out exploring new locations. The consistency of these attacks can range anywhere from irritatingly frequent, to hardly ever. Should you choose to not help defend your settlement, the attack can wipe out every survivor that you've worked hard to recruit. The only way to bypass this possibility is if you have the highest tech defense systems and best weaponry equipped on your settlers; either that, or just not care at all. Either way, the settlement mechanic can really ruin the immersive experience of the game, by pulling you from what you're currently doing.  The Boston wasteland is wonderfully lavish, and it has an incredible number of true-to-life Massachusetts landmarks. I played this game while streaming it for a friend who grew up in Cambridge, which is also featured in the game, and she was constantly pointing out places that she had actually visited while living in the state; such as the The Green Monster wall in Fenway Park, the Cabot House, the Witch House, Old North Church, the Freedom Trail, and so much more. It's great to see that Bethesda were diligent in putting so many famous landmarks, and even little odd touches, that make Boston the place that it is today. There are hundreds of unique locations to explore and clear out. Exploration is a huge part of being able to survive the wasteland, as you will be in dire need of every salvage item that you could possibly think of in order to build defenses, beds, and more around your settlements.  There is a huge crafting system in Fallout 4 that will take you through both armor and weapon modifications, as well as chemistry and the settlement workshop. Despite this expansive crafting system, both the weapon and armor modifications feel extremely limited. At the very beginning of the game, I found a .44 Snub-Nosed Pistol, and keeping the gun upgraded during my playthrough saw it to have the highest damage and accuracy of any other gun that I found and upgraded. The fact that a .44 pistol can out-do any mini-gun or laser rifle is beyond me, and it was really quite disappointing to go through an entire 30+ hour campaign with the same weapon; it felt very redundant, and the combat got extremely boring because of it. Likewise, you can also acquire some of the best armor early on as well, and so long as you keep upgrading it to its highest level, you'll be fine; you'll also look the same for the entire game. The settlement workshop does have a lot to offer, however, and you can customize them however you like so long as you're willing to put in the hours to do so.  There are well over 100 quests for you to complete during your time in the Commonwealth, although you will not have access to all of them during one single playthrough. Fallout 4 is split up into multiple factions that, about halfway through the main story line, you will have to choose which side you want to be on; once this choice is made, you will become hostile to most other factions. As such, a hard save is recommended so that once you complete one faction, you can go back and complete the others without having to completely restart the game. The factions that you can choose from are The Brotherhood of Steel, The Minutemen, The Railroad, and The Institute; although there are four, you only need three playthroughs to 100% the game. However, the real meat of the game doesn't lay within any of the main or faction quests, even though the storyline does, but rather in the 80+ side quests that you will find scattered throughout the game. The \"main game\" only consists of 11 storyline missions, and 39 faction quests.  With all of that being said, here come the major complaints: It's extremely linear. While the landscape looks beautiful from afar, any time that you are up close to anything, the textures turn to mud. This is by far the glitchiest game in the franchise, while the main story quests are generally fine, the side quests are notoriously broken and it can become seriously frustrating, especially if you do not have a back-up save; the console has fixes most of these, but not all. The enemy AI is dumb as nails, you can be right under their nose before they even realize you're there. The optimization is pretty good in enclosed and small areas (144Hz & 100+ respectively), but once you're in the heart of Boston or are flying around in a Brotherhood of Steel helicopter, FPS go south real quick (23-44); even with a GTX 1080, although I played the game with entirely maxed settings at 1080p. With that said, running over 60 FPS will see that NPC's lips do not sync with the dialogue and some lines are even skipped.  The conclusion? Fallout 4 is a decent entry into the franchise that simply tries too hard to be different from its predecessors. Bethesda changed something that wasn't broken by adding irritating settlements that require too much attention, when all you want to really do is explore, pillage, and quest. As well, the Good/Neutral/Evil system is gone. Some folks may not enjoy the lack of interactive town NPCs, but if you're like me you won't really miss it since there are a good amount of main characters to get to know. The crafting system is also a let down, so expect to look the same and use the same weaponry for nearly the entire game. However, the quests are fun (when they aren't glitching out), albeit linear, and the story is alright. When compared to Fallout 3 or New Vegas, this title doesn't have a leg to stand on though.  Rating: 3.5/5.0 - Average, can take it or leave it. The Horror Network Group Click for Gore","hours":58.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9032243449693351,"review":"Great game, I had lots of issues with the game itself at first being that it was so different from the others, but now it got some dlcs...it's still an average game, nothing special compared to previous to previous entries, but it just didn't live up to what was expected of it. Never the less I still had fun playing it so I do recommend it overall, but don't go into it as if it was an actual \"RPG\" because everything just ends up meaning yes in the end anyway.","hours":645.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.79986253486593,"review":"This is my review for Fallout 4!   YouTube™ Video: Review: Fallout 4  Views: 738 My review for Fallout 4 while making comparisons to previous games like Fallout 3 and Fallout: New Vegas. Follow me on Twitch: https://www.twitch.tv/failedtolisten Follow me on Twitter:... ","hours":302.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.830306534351781,"review":"Product received for free  First of all, thank you Hale_Hortlor for giving me this as a gift for my 16th birthday! His profile --> http://steamcommunity.com/id/W4lterBl4ck The story may not be as crisp and flavorful as Fallout: New Vegas and Fallout 3. But I was still an enjoyable experience. Even if I completed the story there is still alot for me to discover within the city of boston. Lots of Easter eggs and secrets are waiting to be uncovered. I also love how the game is super moddable, although it can be difficult and frustrating to get some of them to work together as there can be some compatibility issues. Although community on this game are very helpful as that's where I got help from. Performance in this game is ok. In cities where there is alot of objects and shadows to render on screen, performance issues and crashes occurs sometimes. Character customization is amazing and vast that nearly anything in mind can be possibly be made. Overall I would rate this a 8/10. With mods 10/10 as it fixed alot of issues and bugs within the game.","hours":236.7}