{"funny_percent":0.030226700251889168,"helpful_percent":0.7421976173968948,"review":"Game was and still is so cool, but what's more remarkable to me is how easy is to look for/install/use the mods this time. I usually play the standard mode, sometimes due to my laziness, but this game has quite a few excellent mods, especially if you are looking for a nice immersion and realism, a couple of things that you couldn't find at the original skyrim. This mixed with the new graphics from the special edition makes it SO enjoyable, even when you role-play warming up for 5 minutes next to a fire pit. Mods i use: - Unofficial Skyrim Special Edition: this fixes most of the bugs of the game - Campfire: Lets you build a campfire and different sorts of tents - Vivid weathers: Over 500+ Weathers with different sounds and adjustable brightness, shadows, etc. - Frostfall: Depending on how difficult you want it, you can even freeze to death and rain makes you be wet and get colder faster - Wet and Cold: Same thing but mostly for NPCs. Also includes some other features like blurry screen when you look up while it's rainning or snowing. - Point the way: Since i'm looking for some realism i avoid fast travelling, this is why i got this mod, which shows me the way to every city at every crossroad. - Lampposts of Skrim: Lamp posts on the main roads, but just what is necessary, not plenty of them. - Waves: Now beaches with waves :D - Better horses: Now horses go faster than you by foot, something that makes kind of sense. - Less agressive animals: Just makes less agressive small animals like rats or crabs. Was kind of ridiculous to see a crab trying to fight imperial soldiers. - Hunter's Reward - Better prices: Able to skin and sell pelts for a reasonable price in case you wanna play as a hunter. - iNeed: To eat, to drink and to Sleep is now necessary and rewardable. - Holidays: Skyrim has special days like our christmas and all that stuff - Expanded Carriage Service: Carriage service in places where you couldn't find them before, like Morthal or Dawnstar. - Rich merchants of Skyrim: Merchants have more money to buy, meaning that you don't need to walk around all skyrim to sell the stuff. (1000 septims was humiliating for a merchant TBH) - Run for your lives: When a dragon attacks people run off instead of trying to smack the dragon. - When vampires attack: Same with vampires - The Paarthurnax Dilemma: Lets you spare his life.  - Hold border banners: Banners from different holds are placed on their borders, pretty simple but cool enough for me. - Immersive patrols SE: Since there's a civil war going on, it's weird not to see any battle along the way until you join one of the sides of the war. With this mod you can find these fights while you walk around. Make other kind of patrols available, like the dawnguard. - Practice Dummies: You can use them to improve your skill till level 30 out of 100. That means that you don't need to deal with badass foes with the skill \"i barely know how to hold the sword\". - Mammoth Pelts: You can skin mammoths, something that i still don't get why it wasn't allowed in the original game. - Dog followers are Huskies: Makes it cooler and makes sense too since Skyrim is the north. - Whistle: Lets you whistle to the horse to make him come over, avoiding to search for the damn horse every time he flees from a battle. - NPC's Run and Walk at your pace: exactly what the mod says. - Animal poverty: Animals don't drop gold. Like they have a bank account or something... - Immersive armors: adds different kind of armors and shields. The more smithing perks you got the more armors will show up. (Showed in auxiliary armors) - MamTuskPowderGrind: You can grind mammoth tusk to make its powder, an ingredient that was so hard to find and wasn't allowed (don't know why) to make it out from the normal tusks. - Fantasy Soundtrack Project: Replaces the original music OR adds its songs to the original music. Just necessary if after all these hundreds of hours you got tired of the original one. - Enhaced blood textures: MORE BLOOD! - Skyland: Landscape texture overhaul - Static Mesh Improvement Mod: Better textures for interiors. - Skyrim better roads: More and better textures for main roads. - Verdant: Better textures for grass. - Blacksmith forge water fix se: Makes the water from the blacksmith look real. Yeah... once you realize you need it. - Realistic water two: Improves A LOT water textures and effects. - Open cities Skyrim: No loading screen when you get into a city (this needs a patch to work with Ineed mod) - Immersive Citizens: their behaviour and dialogues are more real. (needs a patch to work with Open cities) BTW, i got them in this order and all of them work properly  Some of the mods are only available on nexusmods, which leads me to my final advise: Download the mod \"noble skyrim\". Improves SO MUCH the city textures and buildings. There's just one problem, it has been ported to special edition but still remains on original skyrim from nexus: http://www.nexusmods.com/skyrim/mods/45807/?  There are two options, wait till it's completely ported to SSE or download it manually from original skyrim and install it manually from Nexus Mod Manager as well. It won't show up on the list, but it will be there, so don't worry. There's a patch as well to work properly with SMIM mod (Static Meshes).  EDIT: I strongly recommend another mod that i just found out! it's called: Amazing Follower Tweaks SSE, and i found it on nexusmods. Short description: you can have more than 1 follower (which is nice since Campfire mod adds tents up to 4 people) and it's possible to tweak each follower as you wish, like creating different sets of outfits depending on if they are outside or inside a city, setting primary spells, weapons, THEY CAN EVEN RIDE HORSES NOW!! and some other stuff. Check it out here: http://www.nexusmods.com/skyrimspecialedition/mods/4340/? (I got it placed after \"the paarthumax dilemma\")","hours":452.8}
{"funny_percent":0.6820276497695853,"helpful_percent":0.777337713577932,"review":"The Skyrim you know and love, now with stable alt tabbing!","hours":450.1}
{"funny_percent":2.1865284974093266,"helpful_percent":0.8820260588452051,"review":"I've nearly finished making my character.","hours":595.7}
{"funny_percent":0.6195372750642674,"helpful_percent":0.7834979495503375,"review":"Product received for free  i can alt tab now","hours":2.7}
{"funny_percent":0.02091254752851711,"helpful_percent":0.8136983672629523,"review":"Back when the original Skyrim released, I was a console pleb, due to not having a good enough PC or money to afford parts or just a PC in general. I put probably 1000+ hours into it, even without all the DLC's. Many different characters, roles, etc. I loved everything this game offered. Fast foward to now, Great PC, so I bought this. Basically non-stop playing with a few breaks here and there, plus sleep. Still the best RPG I've played to this date.   Seriously, if you haven't played Skyrim at all, in all these years... do yourself a favor - play it.   You won't regret it.","hours":81.3}
{"funny_percent":0.8473282442748091,"helpful_percent":0.7760624811432234,"review":"If you already played 900h of the original game, there is no point for you to buy this.  However, if you're like me and never finished the original Skyrim, or you live under a rock, never heard of this and looking for something to invest your precious time into while your wife and kids are gone, this is most likely more morally acceptable than anything else you think of doing right now.","hours":142.3}
{"funny_percent":0.04316546762589928,"helpful_percent":0.7150048254419645,"review":"Product received for free  Basically the same as the original Skyrim. The only major differences are:  + 64 bit engine rework. This largely means that it can use more RAM, and not run into memory issues quite so often as the original Skyrim did. This is, in theory, good for modders, as they can add significantly more content into the worldspace without running into the 3.3GB limit.   + Runs a little more smoothly and stably. I haven't noticed any crashes yet. Framerate is significantly more stable on lower end hardware than original Skyrim.  + Due to engine overhauls and increased memory, larger scale battles are possible. Of course, these aren't implemented; but in original Skyrim, if you spawn significant numbers of NPCs that are in combat you may notice some simply don't fight back. In Skyrim Special Edition, these extra NPCs can fight properly.  + Graphics are slightly improved, and a few bugs are fixed. Textures are somewhat higher resolution - don't know just how much, and i believe meshes are slightly improved in detail as well? Z-Fighting, a long standing engine issue where two textures overlapped (especially noticeable with distance mountains) and the renderer couldn't decide which one to show on top, resulting in rapid flicker between the two textures.  + It's Skyrim. It's incredibly fun, and will drain all your free time. It's made even better by modding, but this leads on to the next point.  - There are very few mods available for it. Much of the original Skyrim's modding community relied on a script extender called SKSE, by the wonderful folks over at Silverlock, known for their script extender plugins for various Gamebryo/Creation engine games by Bethesda. As a result, while big name unscripted mods (ie. texture replacements, mesh replacements, and certain mods that modify existing data without relying on scripting) have been ported, there is a significant gap in user-friendliness as a result.   - The user interface has not been overhauled one bit. It is still the clunky, designed-for-console, made by crab people for crab people mess that it always was, with cascading menus. For original Skyrim, there was an incredible mod called SkyUI, which used SKSE to entirely overhaul the menu systems to a more mouse-and-keyboard friendly setup. SkyUI also created a \"mod configuration menu\", which allowed users with mods to, well, modify various parameters in the mods without having to use a scripted item that gets added to the player's inventory, like in the days of Oblivion. Skyrim Special Edition entirely lacks SkyUI, as SKSE64 is still in development, and SkyUI is unlikely to be ported as it is a finished project.  - There is no new content. The three DLC packs, Hearthfire, Dragonborn and Dawnguard all come bundled with SSE, but there is no added content by bethesda. Well, that's a lie, some items are available when they were not previously, like the nigh-useless Torturer's Hood. But there are no new quests, nothing.  - Graphically speaking, SSE looks like the original version of Skyrim with a couple of basic graphical improvement mods added, stuff like Purity, SMIM (static mesh improvement mod) and similar. It is starting to look somewhat dated, as the game itself is six years old now (I know!)  In short:  Buy this if you want slightly improved graphics and stability, with a smaller modding community that is still struggling to get off the ground. It's still selling for $39USD last I checked, where original Skyrim is $34USD for the base game and $55USD for the game plus DLC.   So yeah, it's cheaper than original Skyrim, but it is also hampered by the main thing that makes Bethesda games long lasting; its moddability.  Honestly, I'd say it's worth paying more for the original game for its extensive library of mods, but if you aren't a person into modding or one who hasn't played Skyrim before (those exist?), get this.","hours":0.3}
{"funny_percent":0.037800687285223365,"helpful_percent":0.8972436828269285,"review":"Special Edition may not seem like a huge improvement to those who have not spent too much time in Skyrim. The graphics, after all, look only marginally better than vanilla Skyrim, and actually appear worse than Legendary Edition with an ENB.  Below the surface, though, there are tons of improvements. Skyrim Special Edition no longer has screen-tearing. No matter how quickly up and down you move your head, there are no screen tears at all, and I'm still amazed at how much it increases the immersion. There are no more flickering mountains. Gone are the days when distant mountains would be white one moment, black the next. The snow is beautiful. As the snow falls, some of the flakes on the ground capture light and appear to sparkle. While Skyrim was already a magnificent world, this effect makes it even more so.  The colors are deeper. Vanilla Skyrim is bleak and Legendary modded Skyrim is often too bright and over-saturated. Special Edition, however, seeks to find the balance between the two and does succeed tremendously. LOD improvement. Legendary Skyrim saw buildings pop up in the distance as you came towards them, but Special Edition has made an effort to render practically everything in the entire world to increase immersion. Fortresses, cities, and even tall trees can be seen quite far away. Towns have bright windows during the night. The windows in buildings such as Dragonsreach are lit during the night, and the lights can be seen from miles away. This gives screenshots taken during the night something to focus on.  Water improvements. Water interacts with stones and banks in its way, slapping against them or changing direction. Better waterfall and windmall LOD. You can see the blades of windmills turning and waterfalls churning from very far away. Skyrim Special Edition's sky looks utterly fantastic. Whether the stars or the Northern Lights dominate the night, you can count on having a lot to appreciate. No more stuttering when traveling between Skyrim's different areas.  64-bit physiology means that Skyrim is extremely stable. The only times Special Edition has crashed were when I attempted to transfer my heavily-modded Legendary save over to Special Edition.  Weaknesses include: Hair still looks pitiful, especially for the Nords and Bretons. Not all textures have been improved. There were issues concerning sound quality in Special Edition's infancy.  I'm quite happy with this remaster. Of course, modders were able to transform Legendary Edition into a graphical masterpiece that surpasses Special Edition in its current state, but I'm sure that we will be getting plenty of texture mods and ENBs for Special Edition in the coming months and years. For although it may not seem like it at first, Special Edition is vastly superior to Legendary in many ways and beckons as the new, superior foundation upon which modders can build. No mod can make Legendary 64-bit. No mod can truly get rid of Legendary's flickering mountains and screen-tearing.  I'm proud of what Bethesda has done. They've made their best Elder Scrolls game even better, giving us a taste of the quality and technology that we will be seeing in their next game many years from now. If you received Special Edition for free, I invite you to try it; you'll be receiving much more than you ever anticipated.","hours":76.4}
{"funny_percent":0.11504424778761062,"helpful_percent":0.714622779890057,"review":"Product received for free  [This is a PC review of the game] When The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim Special Edition came out, I really took a disliking to it. I knew that there would be no added quests or anything like that - that is was literally a slight graphical and performance overhaul. Now, anyone that has played the original Skyrim will know that it needed a performance overhaul from day one, so this \"Remastered\" game really got our attention.   While remastered does come with the DLC all included, it is rather expensive in comparison to Skyrim. I have to put it out there now, that I don't think it is worth full price, ESPECIALLY not if you own the old game. It doesn't add enough new content to warrant that price.   Performance: The Skyrim Special Edition game makes a better use of the power and capabilities behind 64-bit operating systems. The older game would only use certain amounts of your VRAM and power from other various components of your PC. As a result, the game was quite clunky to play, even at times without mods. Many people would go on to mod it, and like myself, some did it quite heavily. The technical limitations of the game in this way soon presented problems in the forms of frequent CTD's (Crashes to Desktop) and infinate freezes / load screens. I have not had these issues as frequently with Skyrim Special Edition. That, however, is not to say it's free of them either.   When actually playing the game, it does feel much smoother than the original one. Sudden freezes, and that clunky stop and start feel have been almost entirely eliminated, and even with a few mods (I've started modding it already) it runs like you'd expect a game should do.   Graphics: The remastered game has faced graphical improvements too. The game has its own built in ENB now, and consequently it looks a lot smoother. Grass and trees have been edited to look slightly better than the original game, and grass is more dense. Not as dense as mods will get it, but nonetheless, there is more of it. I like this, but wish they had gone further with it.   The view range, and the quality of the view that you see has aslo been improved. You can see further out, and it is in more detail. I like this a lot as it feels much more immersive than watching stuff load in in front of you.   Weather systems have been improved too. There are some really quite nice vanilla ambiances and weathers that appear throughout the game, and this was a nice change to the dull, grey feel of the last game.   Having said all of that, I did still feel let down by how little the game had changed, and how much better most of us modders had done it on the old game.   Modding: Unfortunately, Bethesda really screwed up the modding system. I understand that the game was made so that console users could also experience modding, I feel that was done at the cost of the PC users. The idea behind using Bethesda.net to download mods for the game is about as reliable as using the Steam workshop on the old game. If you mod properly, you're going to run in to a lot of issues with it. Thankfully, for PC users, Nexus Mod Manager and LOOT did come to save the day, but nonetheless, I have to criticise Bethesda's thinking on that one.   Unfortunatley, the one thing that kept the last game alive so long - modders - were kinda shafted on this one too. I am not this well-informed on mod creation, but the updated game has changed the way in which mods work / need to be made. As a result of this, some of our most-needed mods such as SkyUI and SKSE are not yet with us, and from that, any former users will agree, we all suffer. There has been nothing to suggest that these mods, and many others that we lost, will not come eventually, but it will take a while.   Verdict: Overall, I think this game was a bit of a money grab to be honest. I, while I still do like it, and not 'satisfied' with it as such. What little has changed hasn't made such a massive difference to the game that it warrants paying over doubble the proce of the old game. Because I love Skyrim itself, I have to give it a strong 10/10, but as a NEW game - a remaster, I can't give it more than a 4/10 really. In my opinion, it's not good enough. However, I got it free because I owned all the content from the old game, so I am not too unhappy. If I'd paid for it I would be.   If you've never played Skyrim before, and you're on console, this will appeal to you, and it would be worth it for you, perhaps, but I don't feel it brought anything new to the PC front. The modding community is still ahead of this game. Ultimatly though, I can't dislike it. It is (because it's Skyrim) an amazing game.   Thank you for reading my review!  Talos be with you all.  P.S. Sorry, can I just tag this on the end. Character still look TERRIBLE A lack of mods means you have to play as the most ugly, dirty, wrinkled, shrivelled, potato-looking cretin I have ever seen in a game. PLEASE, FOR THE LOVE OF TALOS, DO SOMETHING WITH THE CHARACTER CUSTOMISATION!   Thank you.","hours":84.9}
{"funny_percent":0.05544207761890867,"helpful_percent":0.8390900628493478,"review":"HOW TO LOAD ORIGINAL SKYRIM SAVES -Copy your skyrim \"Saves\" folder (documents/my games/skyrim) -Locate (documents/my games/skyrim special edition)  -Paste entire folder in there -Overwrite and paste  Enjoy my fellow Imperials!","hours":3.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.703754282715458,"review":"A remastered version of the 2011 version of Skyrim.  This time mods are downloadable within the game which is nice.  Feel like conquering Skyrim all over again but this time in remastered form.  Then Skyrim Special Edition is that game for you.  While not everyone likes Skyrim, I can recommend this game as that game you can always go back to for some good ol fashion fun. Traveling Skyrim on my horse has never looked more beautiful.   I give this game a 10 out of 10. Mostly being my first Elder Scrolls game when I played way back in 2011 on Xbox 360, then 1000+ hours on PC soon after with currently 80+ hours in the Special Edition.  Most of my hours comes from modding and testing mods alongside gameplay.","hours":125}
{"funny_percent":0.017801638881039843,"helpful_percent":0.7175968841699522,"review":"Product received for free  Everyone's missing the point. This game is NOT a remake, this game is a PORT.  TL;DR -If you've already played Skyrim and aren't into modding there's nothing for you in the SE version. If you are a modder or would like to be then Skyrim SE is a must have.  -Graphics is NOT the reason to play Skyrim SE because they didn't redo the graphics (details below). -I understand WHY the gaming community is so jaded about this release. Given how AAA games are sold these days combined with the poor decision to focus marketing on \"upgraded graphics\" it's predictable there will be many negative reviews. -Cash grab? These are COMPANIES. No income = no company. Simple. Yet consider the release: Free for previous owners. Mod access for consoles. No microtransactions. No pre-paid DLC... No underhanded practices to indicate this is a \"cash grab\" in any way. Beth.net has been around since FO4. Why complain now? It's irrelevant. PC gamers can mod without it. -New graphics? The API was upgraded to DX11, texture compression was updated to a newer format and the water was redone. Period. -Again this is a PORT not a remake; Skyrim SE comes with ALL the glorious bugs of the original, which ironically was part of what made the original release quirky and fun.  So why bother with Skyrim SE? Answer: MODDING THE 64-BIT ENGINE  -This version of Skyrim is a MASSIVE improvement over the 32-bit version and honestly was created for modders. The old 32-bit Skyrim can't handle complex mods very well. Many would break your saves. Crashes were common. Stability is the modders enemy so to speak. -64-bit stability is rock solid. Potential for modding is exponential compared to the original.  Skyrim is my all time favorite game with over 1,000 hours logged using +250 mods but I'm realistic. I won't be playing the SE version anytime soon. We're waiting on the SKSE team and the release of the CK as mods are ported over. I'm extremely excited about the future of this game and if you've been following the modding community you should be too.","hours":4.5}
{"funny_percent":0.417910447761194,"helpful_percent":0.7159035000317028,"review":"Product received for free  You can tab out now.","hours":136.3}
{"funny_percent":0.6428571428571429,"helpful_percent":0.8317414416926259,"review":"70% setting up mods 20% troubleshooting broken mods 10% gameplay  thanks nexusmod","hours":213.9}
{"funny_percent":0.9169054441260746,"helpful_percent":0.7123970480268286,"review":"Product received for free  Its like Skyrim with Skyrim.","hours":57.7}
{"funny_percent":0.610234337637494,"helpful_percent":0.7032752105471024,"review":"Alt+tab works now 10/10","hours":56.4}
{"funny_percent":0.024193548387096774,"helpful_percent":0.8611174863858352,"review":"Product received for free  -runs better -graphics are improved not by a whole lot but they are a better -more stable -less bugs then the original but still not perfect -when it comes to mods i would say even though there are much less, there are plenty that so far seem to be less buggy  **best of all i got it for free. obviously besthsda understands it wouldnt be worth it to charge money if you already had the original so they gave it to us for free.","hours":119.2}
{"funny_percent":0.01098901098901099,"helpful_percent":0.7750382380289277,"review":"NOTE: I am aware this review needs an edit. I will do it ASAP  There are so many reviews of Skyrim, so you probably know what it's about.  The real question is: Should you buy this or the original Skyrim? Here are some key points to consider:  -It is much cheaper than Skyrim with DLC's  -It comes bundled with ALL the DLC's from the original Skyrim  -Comes with a built-in mod manager intended to be used by mods from Bethesda.net  -Saves are reworked - you get seperate save files for each character you create, and there are seperate saves for modded characters, so it is easy to revert back to a time when you didn't break skyrim with mods!  -It is (as of writing this review) LESS modable than the original Skyrim. SKSE has not yet been updated for a 64-bit version and is a dependancy for a lot of the more complex mods.  -The old 3.3GB ram restricion has been removed causing fewer crashes due to running out of memory and boosting the FPS in large battles.  -Stable Alt+Tab! It no longer puts your mouse pointer on-screen after an Alt-Tab (like in the original Skyrim), resulting in fewer restarts and less annoyance.  -Updated to 64bit, much more stable in general and a boon to mods in the long run.  -Rain and snow now don't pass through rocks and other scenery, increasing a bit of immersion and making the terrain feel more \"real\".  -Added God Rays, forrests look much prettier now.  -Depth of field, can be a little annoying in open areas, but makes conversations with NPC's a look lot nicer.  -Sleek black new launcher, removed the 'Data Files' option and moved it to the main menu.  -Slightly better looking bethesda logo on startup.  -The poor sound quality was fixed in a patch, the music sounds the same as the original Skyrim (which is in this case, a good thing).   So, do I recommend it?   If you have never played/owned a version of skyrim before, there is no reason not to buy it. It's cheaper ($5 for all the DLC's) and is more stable.  If you own Skyrim and all the DLC's, there is not much reason to buy this for full price - wait for a sale if you want it (unless money isn't a big deal to you, in that case, buy away!).  If you own the original Skyrim but with no DLC's, then I reccomend it because it is cheaper than buying all the DLC's for it.  Thank you for reading my review! I'm new to this kind of thing, suggest some things I can do better in the comments!","hours":37.4}
{"funny_percent":0.0661764705882353,"helpful_percent":0.9975121342019759,"review":"I liked ✔ and Disliked ✗: (+) Side quests and stories. ✔  (+) The view. ✔ (with mods)  (+) The world. ✔ (-) Many minor bugs. ✗ (most of them can be solved without console command)  (-) Some voice actors sounded like just read the texts. ✗  (-) Without mods, it does not look as good as it announced. ✗  Crashes / Bugs / Glitches: Many minor bugs! Some examples:  ➡️ Found a quest item before the quest for it. And if it was an ordinary item (Amulet of Talos), then it would begin stacking and unable to drop or sell them. 😨  ➡️ Mostly happens with Rikke character, if she gets hurt from you during the war quest line, then after the quest has ended and you went back to Solitude then Rikke keeps attacking you and you will not be able to continue the quest-line. 😨 🎥 → Video about it! ← 🎥  (PS. It could be avoidable with make more different save points.)  ➡️ And rarely, the followers could completely disappear! I experienced this if the follower could not reach me for some reason, then the program force them to teleport to me, but, for some reason the teleport fails and the NPC disappear! 😨 Even with console I could not fix this. The console said that the “The actor does not exist”! They literary disappeared! 😨 😨 😨 I had to load the last save file where they still existed and start over. 😢  etc.   Personal Opinion: For me, the most amusement was the stories of people on Tamriel (the world of Elder Scrolls). The stories which I learnt through the side quests and the main quest as well. The rumours what people say while they were following me or I just stand at one of the fort and listen. The books give more stories from in between the Elder Scrolls series. For example the Argonian war on Morrowind.  And I liked all the DLCs! For me, the Dawnguard was good, the Hearthfire was an excellent idea, I spent hours boilding my own house! I loved it! 💖 And the Dragonborn DLC brought to me a complete new feeling! New view, new people, a new world apocalypse, and more stories from the past Elder Strolls series gaps.   I recommend it to how likes: open world games.  story rich games.  download mods to increase the play-time.  fix many minor issues. 🤓  Achievements: Thanks for Skyrim team, here is not a really hard achievement. Most of the achievements only require just time to spend on them.  The longest achievement could be the:  Oblivion Walker Collect 15 Daedric Artifacts If you missed it, then you would have to start a new character and do everything what the Deadric princes tell to you. Some of them are really cruel you have to do for this achievement. 😧   Addons I used and suggest: Unofficial Skyrim Special Edition Patch[www.nexusmods.com]  Because who knows. 😇  Achievements Mods Enabler[www.nexusmods.com]  Bah-tesda. 🙃  SkyHide - Dont Show Headgears[www.nexusmods.com]  The NPCs looked much better without helmets for me. 👍  Total Character Makeover[www.nexusmods.com]  I found that they really look better with this addon. 👍  Faster Arrows and Bolts[www.nexusmods.com]  Arrows and bolts behaved more lifelike with this addon for me. 👍  Glowing Arrows[www.nexusmods.com]  I found my arrows much more easily. 👍  QD Inventory SSE[www.nexusmods.com]  It is not perfect, but it was better than the default inventory for me.  Real Lighting Reshade[www.nexusmods.com]  I loved it. 💞  Faster Mining[www.nexusmods.com]  Because Hearthfire needs tons of Iron! 🤐  skyBirds SSE[www.nexusmods.com]  I cannot play Skyrim without this addon any more. 💖  Better Roads[www.nexusmods.com]  I really liked this addon. 👍  Seasons of Skyrim - Springtime Overhaul SSE[www.nexusmods.com]  I was bored to see more the endless dazzling whiteness again, and this amazing addon solved this problem. But, I agree with that endless snow fields were cool at my first and second play-through. 👍  True Storms[www.nexusmods.com]  With the Spring addon, it looked amazing for me! 💖😲💖  Yet Another Custom Favorites Menu[www.nexusmods.com]  More action, less inventory browsing. 👍  Skyland[www.nexusmods.com]  I liked it. 👍 ","hours":217.4}
{"funny_percent":1.2591508052708638,"helpful_percent":0.7178267404434444,"review":"I was finally getting my life back together. I got a girlfriend, my grades were good and I finally had a social life and I try to forget what happened 5 years ago when The Elder Scrolls 5 came out. And then this♥♥♥♥♥♥appears again which is basically the same ♥♥♥♥ing game but with faster loading screens and you can finally Alt Tab out without getting the ♥♥♥♥ing cursor on my ♥♥♥♥ing screen and poof, gone.   10/10 would lose my life again.","hours":70.3}
{"funny_percent":0.031746031746031744,"helpful_percent":0.7283309233313474,"review":"Product received for free  Stable Skyrim. Finally. This is what PC users running Windows 10 have needed for a long time.   This is the most stable version of Skyrim I've ever played. I have close to 70 mods installed now and I think I've had one CTD in my current game (level 66 now). That's remarkable for Skyrim.   If you've never taken the plunge, this is the version to do it with.   I received this game for free because I already had the 32-bit version of Skyrim and all DLC's when Special Edition was launched. But given the stability, and how much I play it, I'd have paid the $60. It's worth every penny.","hours":483.7}
{"funny_percent":0.05429864253393665,"helpful_percent":0.7936286126344909,"review":"Product received for free  The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim – Special Edition is an open world first-person fantasy RPG. Return to the snowy peaks of Skyrim and get once again caught up in the return of the dragons, the Civil War, the onslaught of the Vampires and the vengeance of the first Dragonborn, while you carve a destiny of your own.  Pros: The game is just as big as the original game, with a large variety of environments such as snowy mountains, lush forests, swampy marshlands, and a volcanic island among others, and just as many underground environments of mushroom caves, rocky tunnels and dwarven ruins. In addition to the series of main quests and major secondary quests, you have hundreds of minor quests that purposefully targets places you still haven't been to, or make your own adventures by following information from books, exploring locales you overhear people talk of, or walking into a pile of corpses and putting the clues together to find out what happened. There is no class system but the one you make for yourself, as you build your character the way you play: you gain experience in any given skill from actual use of said skill, and invest in perk points you spend in each skill's own perk trees, perks which are unlocked from how experienced you are in that given skill. There's an incredibly large selection of weapons, gear, items and crafting material, crafting which offers so much possibility in smithing, enchanting, alchemy and other crafts. For instance, take the ore you mined and melted into ingots, as well as the leather straps you fashioned from a bear skin you hunted, and you can make yourself a new pair of bracers you'll then toughen up at the workbench. More? How about these roots you picked from a plant, grind them at the alchemy table and mix it with lichen and skeever tails, and you got yourself the exact type of poison you were looking for! Better yet: take some beef, cook it over the fire in the house you built, then add carrots, garlic, and a pinch of salt, and you got yourself a fine stew for bonus health and stamina. The options in this game are endless!  Cons: Let's face it: the Special Edition is nowhere close to where our hopes were. Even if we all knew what to expect, everyone (myself included) secretly hoped for buggy quest fixes, some additional content or 2016-level graphics, but we got nothing more than promised: a slight update on the graphical options with new lighting and graphical effects and a 64-bit engine. All that doesn't change how aged the game can sometimes look, especially if you use the third-person combat. The game feels too easy, not in terms of monster fight which will still challenge the new players, but in terms of quests: the exact location of any main or sidequest objective is clearly marked on the world map, area map and compass, hand-holding you and giving little challenge in figuring out how to solve a puzzle. You can take as long as you like to complete any quest objective, it will be right there waiting for you, whether you got the quest a day or a year ago.  Verdict: ★★★★☆ - Next on your list!  How could I recommend The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim – Legendary Edition but not this one? It's the same game with a basic graphic update, considered a separate product on Steam only for technical reason regarding the game's new engine. If you got the other edition and somehow didn't get this one for free, it's not worth re-purchasing at all. But if you're looking to buy for the first time and have no inclination towards Mods, there is no reason for you to wait any longer to sink dozens, if not hundreds of hours in this world! Now, time for me to earn all those achievements all over again!  ————————————————————————— This was just my opinion.  If you found this review helpful, please consider giving it a thumbs up, and feel free to check out more of my (purely opinionated) reviews.","hours":216.1}
{"funny_percent":0.018867924528301886,"helpful_percent":0.9880701926835286,"review":"We all know Skyrim is amazing, warts and all. No need to explain that. If you like video games and you haven't played Skyrim, you should. Period.  So the question is, S.E. worth it vs Original Skyrim?  And the answer is: yes.  Should it have been priced as a full-priced AAA new release? Probably not. Is there a valid argument that this version could and should have been more improved? Yes.   Is it still the best Skyrim you can get? Absolutely.  If you're not that much into modding, and have a decent PC (it's quite more demanding than the original), there is no question about it. You should buy this version. If you only played it on console, or not at all, you should buy this version.  Enjoy things like taking advantage of all your RAM (64 bit), much-improved loading times (huge deal), rain occlusion, godrays, more stability, better water, and better looks in general, with other (granted) minor and subtle improvements.  The one and only drawback for S.E. imo, that many are endlessly rambling about, is the fact that certain much-needed modding tools haven't been ported yet, and it is not reason enough for me not to recommend this game as the best possible Skyrim you can get.   Because the modding community is amazing, and they're working on it, and you already can use many (and I mean A LOT) of the best mods out there in your S.E. And have a satisfactory run before the full modding potential is unleashed, which will be eventually, and with the 64 bit thing has a much higher ceiling than the original.  If you are a veteran, already poured endless hours on the original PC version and (almost guaranteed, subsequently) are really into modding it, there's an argument to stick with it for a while, but there's also a good chance you already got S.E. as a free upgrade, for when the time comes to move on. So what's with all the ranting? I really don't know.","hours":97.2}
{"funny_percent":0.620889748549323,"helpful_percent":0.9662854282049902,"review":"The \"Just 5 more minutes\" award goes to ....","hours":154.3}
{"funny_percent":0.2537313432835821,"helpful_percent":0.9730241308660066,"review":"Product received for free  Same good old skyrim but with better graphics, more feel to it and better performence. Also 64-bit.  And Alt-Tab now works.  10/10 I suck at reviews.","hours":53.6}
{"funny_percent":0.03763440860215054,"helpful_percent":0.7777458299500448,"review":"Product received for free  Well I’m already 100hrs into the new playthrough and it's my firm opinion that the SSE is already the new de-facto modding platform. (and it's only a week old)  It's the same game only smoother. The DX11 based graphics, and the 64bit engine combine nicely to smooth out movement in the world space. Where the LE version based on DX9 would tend to stutter crossing cell boundaries in a heavily modded environment; the new version flows past with no perceptible transitions. It's a shame Bethesda used software to upscale the textures instead of replacing them with some of the incredible work that's freely floating around the Nexus. I'm sure Vurt, and Renthal and others would have been thrilled to have been asked. They missed a wonderful opportunity to showcase the work of real artists.  It needs to mature just a tad. The modding community is in a rush to port things over, and some are not bothering to do it right. There are problems with the tools all needing to be updated to run the new compression standards and file structure upgrades that support the 64-bit engine... and in a stroke of pure inspiration and genius, and truly sh@tty timing (IMAO:) Robin hired Tannin and said \"Take your time and do it right\" Thus ending furure developement on MO 2.0.  Bless him we can wait a little while, and it will certainly be worth it I'm sure. I just pray they keep the best of NMM, which is the simplicity of the user interface, and ease of setup. But they need to also keep the best of MO. I want my virtual data folder and on the fly profile switching. I want separate INI files and tweaks and saves for each profile. To add my 2 cents ... I also want direct ENB file management built in as well. It's stupid not to extend the editor one bloody folder higher and let me package presets the same way I package profiles now. PLEASE!!!! do it right.  I'm looking forward to writing mods with the new CK. It seems a little smoother as well ;-) I already have a mod in mind I was holding off on, but I think I'll start with a new lakefront cabin with an animated boat on the dock that I can actually take to different spots on the lake. I fully expect to be wowed when Art of the Catch, and Last Seed join the ranks of Campfire, Frostfall, and Wearable Lanterns ... Etc. Chesko's vision realized. I'm building the fishing hut first based on his open APIs when they come out :) This time I might even publish.   Well I've got over 7000 hrs in the original Skyrim, but after over a hundred hours playing the SSE lightly modded (a little over 50 mods managed by Wrye bash) I'm pretty much here to stay. It's a much more fluid experiance. I'm calling this playthrough \"Vanilla with Sprinkles\" and just enjoying discovering all the little nooks and crannies I haven't visited in a long time. Now that a few of the true back bones of modding like Fore of FNIS, and Boris of ENB fame have stepped up, and the work on SESKSE has begun, it's only going to get better.","hours":190.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7579906339276945,"review":"Product received for free  I hate to say this, but if you already own Skyrim do NOT buy the Special Edition.  I really love Skyrim, I do, but as hard as I try, I can't see the any difference between them.  The game loaded on High Quality automatically, vanilla was Ultra High.  Didn't think much of it, jumped in, got jumped. 30 frames in battle scenes, inside 60, but that's a short glory. As soon as I look at something other than a wall,  I get a maximum of 30 frames. And that's about it. And yes, it does get worse.  Edit:: Eversince I disabled V-Sync in the .ini-file (not in the launcher) I have 60-120 frames. I recommend this for everyone who has trouble with low performance!  Vanilla Skyrim with the High Texture Pack and a good ENB did 60 frames without any problems on Ultra High. Just fyi. Skyrim Special Edition on High with a maximum of 30 frames outside.  I haven't played much yet but I have seen enough to compare the two games and say: For the love of Paarthunax, do NOT buy this Version. Get the Skyrim Legendary Edition, a good ENB and you're settled for life. Especially with mods.  Oh.  I almost forgot. The amazing drag & drop manual installation of mods, or using the NMM, still exists, but there's the Bethesda Mod Store now. Or whatever it's called. Not a fan of it. I tested it, downloaded a few starter mods and boom. There goes my game. It crashed. In all my hours of Skyrim modding I have never had Skyrim crash because of one simple beginner mod. Not even once.  Uninstalled them, got them manually from Nexus, started the same savegame, no problems. Thanks, bethesda. And now they disabled Achievements too. But yes, there is a mod for enabling them again, as well.   The game feels just like it did before. I never needed volumetric lightning to bash Bandits heads in, no remastered art & effects to enjoy the beautiful scenary, no dynamic depth of field on my way to new quests, no screen space refelctions for the most amazing spells that tore my enemies in a thousand pieces, no new snow shaders to freeze on my way to old tombs, no new water shaders to hide from predators and meet new ones, I didn't need any of that to enjoy the game. I did because of its story and open world, just the feeling. I loved that game.  And it just worked.  Now? Not so much. A new mod system that's unclean and confusing, frames that make me want to play Vanilla Skyrim again and just nothing really new.  I appreciate getting it for free but honestly? It's not worthplaying it. At all. It's Skyrim. With worse perfomance and a bad mod system.  I recommend it because it's Skyrim, not because it's \"Remastered\".  Get the original Skyrim Legendary Edition. You'll enjoy it more.","hours":73}
{"funny_percent":0.05785123966942149,"helpful_percent":0.8267170129397088,"review":"Big improvement to the old skyrim 32 bit. They updated the engine to 64 bit. It runs better, It looks better and mods run better. Its overall a better experience.  The Elder scrolls series, a must have for anny Rpg fan.","hours":154.5}
{"funny_percent":2.677053824362606,"helpful_percent":0.909224262674476,"review":"Created Character Play Main Story for 20 min Killed Chicken in Riverwood Realized it was mistake to kill chicken in Riverwood Got chased for 20 min by chicken elf lady Shot 50 arrows into her Ran out of arrows Ran to shop to get more Crazy chicken elf lady followed me into shop  Crazy chicken elf lady kill me when I buy arrows My arm glitched off my body and I bled all over floor  Realized i saved gamr after i killed chicken Got stuck in infinte loop of crazy chicken elf lady trying to kill me Ran away Stole Horse Got chased by foot soliders Decided to turn around to try and run over foot soldiers Got stopped Told to pay a fine or go to jail Ran from authorities Ran back to Riverwood Crazy chicken elf lady saw me Crazy chicken elf lady kill me Forgot to save Smashed latop Bought new laptop Reloaded game Game loaded into Riverwood Crazy chicken elf lady saw me Put a bullet in my head Came back to life Restarted all of Skyrim after realizing I had completed only 20 min Went to Riverwood Bought a bow and arrows Randomly shot at ground Ground was chicken Crazy chicken elf lady chase me Raged Tried to pull disc out of computer Digital Downloaded Game Delted Skyrim Came back 20 min later Redowloaded Killed Crazy chicken elf lady Killed all chickens Became satisfied 10/10 would kill chicken again","hours":0.5}
{"funny_percent":0.032388663967611336,"helpful_percent":0.9312683767517644,"review":"Product received for free  The number of idiot reviews is mind blowing. I hate having to write such a non-traditional review, but enough is enough. There has been so many issues with people misunderstanding what they were getting and people expecting things that weren't meant to be expected, and all sorts of common sense issues. I'll try to address many of the issues at hand.    Q: Is this free?   A: If you owned the original game and the 3 DLCs before a certain date (believe it was close to this release), then you can get this game, for free. If you bought the DLC or the game or the game and dlcs afterwards, then you are SOL and will not get it for free.    Q: But why should I buy a game for $40 if it's just some 5yo game but 'remastered'?   A: If you truly liked TES series, then to be blunt, you would have had gotten Skyrim and the 3 DLCs, thus worrying about this being an issue, but if you somehow didn't, or if you didn't even buy Skyrim itself, then this version would be a good version to buy. You get the game and the 3 DLCs all combined together, which last time I checked, was cheaper than buying Original Skyrim and the 3 DLCs. That alone should help save money. There are even other features to this that make it simply better for the everyone. However, not everyone gains as much benefits from this as others may.    Q: My heavily modded with ENB Skyrim game looks and runs perfect. Why should I bother with this version then?    A: If your game runs perfect and can run all the mods your heart desires, then don't bother with this. This version of the game was clearly not meant for you since all is well for you and your game.    Q: Well it doesn't run perfect but it still looks so much better than the graphics from SSE.    A: Wait, are you trying to compare a vanilla game to a modded game that was only 5yos? It's almost as if mods will make a game look better than a vanilla game, oh wait. Of course a modded game will make Skyrim look better than vanilla SSE, and that's hardly a fair comparison. Once more mods are converted, this game will look just as good, maybe even better, than the original Skyrim. Also, Bethesda never said that their remastered game would look better than a modded game, just better than the original vanilla game, and it DOES look better than vanilla.    Q: What about bugs? None were fixed, and some were even added. heck, my 900 series graphics card is lagging!   A: No one said that they would fix bugs. People just assumed that 'remastered game = bugs fixed\", but all Bethesda said was that they were going to use the new engine to overhaul the graphics. As for any new bugs, that's to be expected with any new game and yes I call this a new game because it was released, rather than updated. One issue pointed out and soon to be addressed, it the sound compression. I personally can't hear it that easily, but others have, and Beth. said that they will look into it for a future fix. As for laggy graphics with high end cards, there is one possible fix for that, and that is to make sure the game does NOT use your integrated graphics card. If it does, then you will lag badly, so just change that and most likely, the issue will be resolved    Q: I want my mods to run on SSE. Why won't my old mods work?   A: Few mods can work due to the nature of the mod, but for most, they won't work because they were made for the original engine used for Skyrim. Now, it's a new engine which means the mods must be converted and that may take some time for certain mods, while not much time for others. That's just how it is.     Now that I got that out of the way, I'll just post some of the good and bad things about it even though many of them will be known by now due to the trailers and marketing things that have mentioned the changes.    Pros:   + Free to anyone who bought the game and 3 DLCs before this release  + 64bit support, which means more mods can be run by people while having smooth performance  + Texture updates makes things look sharper for vanilla  + Rain and snow occlusion makes for small visual changes  + Water flow improvements  + Different mod system that allows mods to be controlled within the game (still some issues with it but its new, so it will take time)  + Various QoL changes. One example is that you can now have separate save files for different characters.   Cons:  - Slightly high price might turn off new people but it has all the DLCs combined which makes it a better deal for those who don't have the game. Bad deal for those who only had the game or the game and not all DLCs  - Not worth switching over too (assuming you have this for free) IF and only if the original game runs at perfect conditions for you already since it will only mean even smoother performance which most likely will not be visible.     Conclusion: This is a great improvement from vanilla Skyrim by quite a bit. If you played the original Skyrim on vanilla, then you will see the difference when you play here on vanilla. There are more graphical settings that allow for tweaking that can improve visuals or performance. There are even small changes that just improve the playing experience. While its a shame they didn't bother fixing some minor issues (boxes turned wrong way, grammar issues) to bigger issues (quest bug making quest unfinishable), they didn't say they would fix bugs and thus they did what they said.","hours":66.4}
{"funny_percent":0.15,"helpful_percent":0.9780393105240703,"review":"Product received for free  256 Mods. No crash yet. 64 bit is godsend.","hours":33.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9764510346010912,"review":"Product received for free  good ol skyrim, same wall textures, better light effects, same lame character models, better graphic on some things.  All owner of the original game (if you owned DLCs aswell) got it for FREE, thats pretty unusual in video game industry, i could already call out a lot of \"remastered\" game where graphic not changed much but they selling the remastered version for 30-40euro and they not gave out the game to the owners of the previous version. Alone this deserve a positive review but we all know skyrim is a great game.","hours":148.2}
{"funny_percent":0.07142857142857142,"helpful_percent":0.7444390473691548,"review":"Product received for free  I think Bethesda has done great work with this Edition of Skyrim. The 64-bit version makes it more stable in my opinion. The graphical changes actually quite good, because there is more grass and plants, the trees looks better, sun glare, god rays, Depth of Field and the new lightning. And I can not forget to say that the viewdistance is a big improvement.  Of course this can not compete with a modded 32-bit Skyrim, so this is compared with vanilla Skyrim.  Absolutely worth the free upgrade or a buy for those who don't own the game.  The PC is simply the best Skyrim version. very nice.","hours":133}
{"funny_percent":1.740506329113924,"helpful_percent":0.8731456881593986,"review":"Original game(on ps3): Step 1: Buy and install game  Step 2: Run game  Step 3: Play a bit of the story mode but eventually get distracted by a side quest.  Step 4: Get angry at Lydia. You have now reached the point of no return. Say goodbye to your friends, family and everything else you loved. There is now no escape.   Original game(on pc): Step 1: Buy and install game  Step 2: Run game  Step 3: Play a bit of the story mode but eventually get distracted by a side quest.  Step 4: Get angry at Lydia.  Step 5:  Mod it till you are getting 1fps.  Special edition(pc): Step 1: Watch the trailer  Step 2: Cry of joy a little.  Step 3: Buy and install game  Step 4: Run game  Step 5: Play a bit of the story mode but eventually get distracted.  Step 6: Get angry at Lydia.  Step 7:  Mod it till you are getting 1fps.  10/10","hours":103.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7736368669493887,"review":"Product received for free  You're looking a little rough around the edges.  With the Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim Special Edition one of the best open world role-playing games of all time is getting the upgrade we weren't even waiting for. It's basically just a visual overhaul for the game, everyone knows and loves.   Pro's - lovely visuals - feels more up to date - includes DLC  Con's - 2011 Skyrim looked better with mods - ‎paid Mods with Creator's Club   The Special Edition did, what it was supposed to do. It's still the same game, simply updated to look less 2011. No need to buy it, if you already own the normal version.","hours":43.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8297877934095446,"review":"Product received for free  Simply a better version of Skyrim. My framerate has nearly doubled in major cities compared to the original game, while still looking better (this is on a mid-high end PC). If you got this free, try it out! If you have to pay full price for it, maybe stick to the original.","hours":102.6}
{"funny_percent":0.10344827586206896,"helpful_percent":0.8426742372808408,"review":"Product received for free  Normal edition: best RPG I ever played. Special edition: + Graphics upgrade + 64bit (!) and ram upgrade (also great for mods) - Aside from the things above, not much was changed overall.  Summary: should have been a big patch, not a \"new game\" since only the graphics were enhanced so the nextgen consoles can have the same visuals as PC.  Still recommending because the game itself is amazing!","hours":106.8}
{"funny_percent":0.76,"helpful_percent":0.7508650856106431,"review":"Skyrim did not teach me how to deal with bank stuff. Skyrim did not teach me how to buy a house. Skyrim did not teach me how to get a job. But I'm ♥♥♥♥ing happy to have learned the Dovahkiin song!  10/10  I wish I could play Skyrim for the first time again.","hours":67.9}
{"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":0.8956590626263505,"review":"If you had Skyrim: Legendary Edition for the PC, you probably got the Special Edition for free. While that's fine and all, we should never let that get in the way of how we view the game itself. So, is it better than the 2011 version by any chance? After playing it for 5 hours vanilla, then 1 hour modded, I can tell you the pros and cons now, along with differences between old Skyrim and this one.  Pros: SSE feels way smoother, with 60 frames a second. Better flow of gameplay / movement. Graphics are improved, not to a serious degree but they're pretty nice. Lighting and effects are much better, standing out compared to 2011 version. Environment / background no longer stutters (where mountains / water freaks out) Shadows are improved, some even reacting realistically to movement now Particles and weather changes no longer cause FPS drops. 3D Models seem a bit polished, along with other textures to cause better FPS performance. Loading times are a lot faster, sometimes instant which is awesome. Already has some great mods for use, to make the game FAR more fun.  Cons: HUD is absolute crap. It's really awful and the inventory menu is also horrible. Same bugs / glitces that 2011 Skyrim had, no improvements on that. Although game doesn't crash as often, it still crashes or freezes for no reason. Combat is the same, with no improvements on spells or the mechanics at all. Achievements are disabled if you download any mods ... really Bethesda? No changes to the quests, characters, or touching the core game. Charaacter models look bland, bad, and the NPCs can have seams on their necks. Some content is still cut out, so you'll need to download Cutting Room Floor[www.nexusmods.com] to get everything.  Personally, I believe Special Edition was meant for the console users since it's now portable to the Xbox One / PS4 with mod support, plus touched on graphics and lighting. However to my disappointment, nothing else has really changed. It's more stable, crashes less, and looks nice but doesn't offer much else for me to really consider it better than the 2011 version.   HOWEVER, I will say this: SSE is capable of topping 2011 once enough mods come out for it, due to how the game can handle much heavier scripts / heavy duty mods and can register much better than the old Skyrim with more mods and stable performance. In other words, this SSE is going to shine brightly since it has way more room for modders to make greater mods without the fear of limitations or quality drops from memory usage. Give it a year and i'm sure SSE will be better than 2011, but that'll take awhile. I'll also pray that the modding community can release SKSE because christ the HUD / inventory menu sucks so much.  Also hey it's free so no need for me to hate on the game. Still, Bethesda was a bit lazy to not improve other elements in the game but i'll take the open room for modding improvement / enhanced capabilitties without sacrificing the FPS or risk of crashes.  If you decide to play this game, PLEASE install Unofficial Skyrim Special Edition Patch[www.nexusmods.com] so half the problems vanilla has gets patched up.","hours":185.4}
{"funny_percent":0.043478260869565216,"helpful_percent":0.8044975713217677,"review":"Product received for free  The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim, a game ahead of its time that brought out amazing visuals, RPG elements, story, world, and great gameplay. Almost 5 years later after the Skyrim release in Novmeber 2011 came the release of The Elder Scrolls V: Skyrim Special Edition. How does this remaster stack up against the original? And how much as it aged since? Well honestly the gameplay, graphics, and elements had aged very well in my opinion ever since the game first released. The Special Edition of Skyrim is a controversial remaster in the PC community when it first launched but people had misunderstood the purpose of this remaster when it came to the PC version.  The purpose:  -64 bit Engine  -Get rid of the Steam workshop mods since there wasn't much variety in the modding so the mods are downloaded ingame from the bethesda.net website which adds the ability to download bigger and better mods than those of the workshop ported ones  -Faster loading times (The load times are extremely fast not gonna lie. I play on my hard drive and it takes 2-3 seconds max to load into a building that I entered)  -The ability to alt tab without crashing the game (This was never fixed in the original)  -144hz support (I'm not sure if Bethesda has fixed the bugs that would happen when playing at a higher fps like 144fps but if they haven't then they're at least acknowledging it)  This is why the PC version of Special Edition has happend and has been given away for free to existing owners who had the original and all DLC since Bethesda wants the modding experience to be better for those who owned the game without forcing them to buy another copy.  Well with that out of the way here's the pros and cons of the remaster.  Pros: + Better modding due to 64 bit engine + DX11 + Beautiful water, sun godrays, depth of field effects, and better shadows (The shadows in the original cranked up to ultra looked like legos which looked laughably bad. The remaster fixes that) + Alt tab actually works  Cons: - The optimization isn't good in terms of performance, many people have problems with consistency and so do I. - The textures are left untouched so the Skyrim character model's faces look rough and hair looks very stiff (Mods definitely fix this) - Many bugs are left untouched and some are probably even game breaking (I recommend downloading the Unofficial Skyrim Special Edition Patch which fixes the bugs that are present that the devs never fixed)  Now with the remaster purposes and pros and cons of it. What is good and bad about the actual game?  Pros:  + Very addicting and relaxing gameplay that is still very fun + Great story + DLCs are worth playing, my favorite being Dawnguard (Serana is pretty hot too as a companion not gonna lie) + Hundreds of hours of content available + Amazing RPG elements, the skill building has a lot of categories to invest skill points into + Amazing soundtrack (The Dragon boss theme is absolutely ♥♥♥♥ing amazing) + Many armor sets and weapons to collect + Many locations to explore like.. Dwarven ruins, abandoned mines, bandit camps, etc... + Many creatures to fight + So many side quests to complete + Decision making that impact the game + Finishers are so satisfying  Cons:  - Many bugs that could result in game breaking - The companion AI can be annoying sometimes. (Ex. Blocking a doorway to where you have to push them to get out)  Final Verdict:  Skyrim Special Edition is a must buy if you have NEVER played Skyrim before and want to experience it for the first time. If you don't have a good enough PC and have a Xbox One or PS4 and you want to play Skyrim? Then you're in luck since the console versions get to experience mods and close to max PC settings at 1080p 30fps. But be aware about the PS4 version since the modding is only based on files that already exists in the game and no new ones can be added (Dumb move by Sony with their policy). Skyrim is such an amazing game that makes me come back for more and relive my childhood when I played at launch when I was only 10 on my Xbox 360, I even thought about picking up the Xbox One version so I can chill on my couch and play Skyrim.  Remaster Improvements Over the Original: 8/10  The Overall Game: 10/10  Thanks for reading this review","hours":36.3}
{"funny_percent":0.07692307692307693,"helpful_percent":0.7518490134296645,"review":"The new lightingsystem plus ambientoclusion and with all the hires textures makes every scene look just stunning. i have played so many hours with all the mods, and now the base game is already so breathtaking. Thanks!","hours":80.1}
{"funny_percent":1.2191358024691359,"helpful_percent":0.8738580609574292,"review":"Product received for free  Logic in Skyrim:  >Find out Anise's secret >Kill Anise >Steal stuff from her cabin after she's dead >Hired thugs come after me for stealing >Anise sent them  10/10 would be taught a lesson by mercenaries sent from a dead woman again","hours":100.5}
{"funny_percent":0.02631578947368421,"helpful_percent":0.7596789096454245,"review":"I've played this game throughout multiple times, I never modded it as I prefer games to run Vanilla. Meaning for all those hours I dealt with Vanilla Skyrim graphics and I can confirm that there is a HUGE difference. As soon as I started in the wooden carriage with the prisoners/Ulfric, I turned to the left and couldn't stop looking at the wooden carriage. I instantly messaged my friends telling them to look around as soon as they start, and they responded exactly the same. \"It's beautiful.\"  Also people are saying that their is no difference between Original Skyrim & Skyrim Special Edition. I have around 200+ hours on Skyrim on Steam and around 1000+ hours on PS3 Skyrim. Old Skyrim feeled so bland, dark colours. Don't get me wrong, Skyrim is and will be one of the best games to be made, ever. However Original Skyrim felt so bland, there were parts of the game that felt colourful, such as spells or Whiterun. However this edition feels like it has the colours of a TellTale game. It has a more cartoon feel to the colours. It sounds negative however once you see this on your own screen you'll know exactly what I mean. It's basically Original Skyrim, with beautiful colours and everything feels more smooth.  It feels like a totally new game, I've played hundreds of games for thousands of hours, and not one has ever felt as good as this, I only have a couple hours on this game as I write this review, however throughout time I'll end up with thousands of hours on this game.  I would have been happy to pay for this game however Bethesda was generous enough to give us owners of the Original Skyrim including all DLC the whole Special Edition for free. Which comes with all the DLC. Which is honestly amazing, Bethesda could have made hundreds of thousands of dollars by making us pay for it. They made an extremely generous move on their end and for that I respect Bethesda alot more.  I'd recommend this game for anyone looking to have a whole new experience with the gaming genre. Some games are for certain groups of people who like different games, however Skyrim, I'd recommend for anyone and everyone. Get this if your PC is decent enough to run it which you can find out on the Store page by looking at the recommend specifications.  - TJ","hours":822.2}
{"funny_percent":0.09090909090909091,"helpful_percent":0.72449645460737,"review":"After about 1000 (one thousand) hours of Oldrim and a two year break in between, Special Edition got me into Skyrim again - and it's still an absolutely amazing game. Of course mod-wise there are still some features missing -namely anything that depends on SKSE- but if rumors are true that won't be for the case for much longer. However, the Special Edition modding scene is quite active and prolific as well, and even now, just four months after release, there are mods for pretty much anything. (Some non-SKSE-dependent staples such as Interesting NPCs are still missing though.)  Skyrim Special Edition doesn't fix the old bugs and glitches, no, and the USKP team hasn't quite caught all of them yet in SSE. But nonetheless, the 64bit release is a lot less of a hassle than Oldrim because it is very stable even with a large number of mods. In close to 200 hours, I've had a total of five, maybe six crashes on the same machine that got me a crash an hour even with all the 3rd party stability tools like SSME and ENBoost installed (and a crash every 5 minutes before said tools came out).  Verdict: If you're wondering whether you should get Oldrim or Newrim - get Newrim, it's catching up fast and comes with a lot less clutter, PLUS it has all the DLCs included already, so no more checking whether a mod requires Dawnguard or Dragonborn or Hearthfire before you install it. 10/10, would let a Giant bludgeon me into space again.","hours":483.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.948250825358695,"review":"One of the greatest games ever made now looks a whole lot better.  It's Skyrim but with much better graphics. I'm getting a rock solid 60 FPS on Ultra settings at 1920x1080.  My specs are;  i7-4790K  GTX 980  16 GB RAM  The game now looks fantastic. In over 8 hours of play I've encountered no bugs or crashes of any kind.  Thanks, Bethesda for doing this. :)","hours":103.5}
{"funny_percent":0.09622886866059818,"helpful_percent":0.8317608158592835,"review":"Product received for free  People reviewing this game are the biggest whiners I've ever seen, and I've got 3,000+ hours on CS:GO.   The game is Skyrim. The graphics have definitely been improved from the original game. I've had no problems so far and it's running smoothly on preset Ultra @ 60 fps on my MSI 970.   You get the original game, with a nice looking, subtle ENB-esque colour scheme with updated textures. It looks nice to say the least.  The game was free. You get to play all the DLC. It's another reason to play through Skyrim again. Why are you complaining?  P.S. To all of the people commenting \"it wasn't free\". You had from E3 this year to purchase the original Skyrim and all of the DLC for under £10 in multiple Steam sales. And you have the audacity to call me the stupid one?  P.P.S. I'm not bragging about my hours in CSGO. I'm simply stating that people complaining about this game are worse than the people who play CSGO. Including myself.  P.P.P.S. \"Mods make original Skyrim better.\" Mods will make this one better too. I'm talking about the BASE game compared to the original Skyrim BASE game. Not with mods. You don't review a game because of mods.  (I'm not reading the comments and have unsubscribed from the thread since I first posted the review. Checking over them now, it's hilarious how mad people can get over a review. Unfortunately a review is an opinion, if you don't like, that's even more unfortunate for you.)","hours":23.3}
{"funny_percent":0.024390243902439025,"helpful_percent":0.7939029823907251,"review":"Product received for free  If for some reason you've never played Skyrim, this is probably the version to buy. It looks better straight off the bat, contains all the DLC, is less likely to crash (always a plus), and has a simple in-built browser for finding and installing mods. The more you play, the more the desire to try a mod or two grows. It's much easier to do this using the in-game browser, but you're on your own: the more mods you install, the greater the chances that something might conflict with something else and the whole thing will crash, but that's the risk you take. You can still install mods externally using a mod manager if you prefer, which is probably recommended if you really want to dive down the rabbit hole. Most original version mods won't work unless they've been converted, and many now have, but a few great ones are missing (at the time of writing). Still, you can get the Special Edition modified the way you like it pretty quickly, and the options available will only grow. Recommended mods so far: SkuUI (v2.2 works), Unofficial Patch, Frostfall / Camping, Wet and Cold, Cutting Room Floor, Even Better Quest Objectives, Climates of Tamriel, Volumetric Fog, True Storms SE, Better Horses, Diverse Dragons, Enhanced Blood. I have others installed, but these have really made a big difference.  Anyway, regardless of all that, Skyrim remains one of the most remarkable and atmospheric open world RPGs available.","hours":132.2}
{"funny_percent":0.09574468085106383,"helpful_percent":0.7061702926121233,"review":"100 hours in, and I have only completed 2 of the main quest plots. About 2 hard crashes during that time. This is stable on a a stable PC.   I simply love a game where I can explore anything. Just head out in the wilderness, look at ruins, caves and towers. All with a backstory and a reason for why they are there.   4k/60 perfect from day one with a I7skylake, 1080GTx, NVmeSSD, 16gig. Win10/latest nvidia drivers.","hours":197.8}
{"funny_percent":0.04938271604938271,"helpful_percent":0.7785323065065801,"review":"Product received for free  If you're playing on a laptop that has an Intel integrated card and a Nvidia discrete graphics card, make sure Skyrim SE is using the latter, otherwise you might have severe performance issues. You can do this through NVIDIA Control Panel and setting skyrimse.exe and skyrimselauncher.exe to use \"High-performance Nvidia processor\".  If your PC is powerful enough and updated with the latest graphics drivers, you should have no problem running the Special Edition. For reference I'm playing with Ultra settings on an MSI laptop with a GeForce 960M and 16GB of RAM.   I got the Special Edition for free since I already owned the original Skyrim with all its DLCs. If you don't own either, whichever you choose to buy would depend on your PC specs and whether you want a better-looking game out of the box. The price difference isn't that big though so if you're looking for future compatibility the Special Edition might be better purchase.  ","hours":88.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.844293235596721,"review":"Am I received it for free? Yeah, because I've already paid for Skyrim back in the days. So it's not \"for free\". On the other hand, Bethesda made it much more fairplay, than in so many other HD remakes - like Sleeping Dogs HD case, for instance.  Basically, it's the same Skyrim people know and love about 5 years already, with DX11 visual enhancements, which were optional before. All achievements are the same, and yet you need to open them again - which some of crazy achievement hunters might even like! Sadly, something is bugged with achievements, though, some are getting them, some (like me) - are not. And we're all playing the same thing, with the same basic installments!  Tell you what I'll do. I'll reinstall the vanilla. It runs smoother, it has mods - and do not punish you for using them, like the \"new\" game. It's just have much more options, than this remake! I've played \"Special Edition\" for more than 5 hours, and I didn't noticed anything really new around. It's all the way the same Skyrim! So why torture my PC with newer tech specs I was never cared about? I'm good with what I had already.  So far, day 1 release product notes: Skyrim is still a great game. A wonderful adventure for hundreds hours (days) of playtime. New visual effects are making some background... but I never played games for visual enhancements. May the Crytek and all other graphical freaks go and love themselves! I cherish the games for the fun, and not for hi-res flowers and hi-res blood on them. So far... fun is all on the side of vanilla version. 9.5/10 points to the game, weak 5/10 - for HD tribute.","hours":9.5}
{"funny_percent":0.5217391304347826,"helpful_percent":0.8635647829304158,"review":"It's skyrim.","hours":51.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7856774393495143,"review":"Product received for free  Great game. There isn't much difference with the Original TES5, but I like the in-game mod-loader.","hours":55.8}