{"review":"I should have written a review long ago. After all, I've played this game for 1,000+ hours and idle'd in its level editor for a few hundred more.  Dustforce DX is the deepest and most technically demanding 2D platformer ever made. It has a momentum based engine where all actions have real weight and consequence, attacks have start-up frames, things are jump and dash-cancellable, and there are tricks measured in how many frames they save. Every level has leaderboards both for score and for raw time, and the community is fiercly competitive and still very active. More importantly, every run on the leaderboards also has a replay embedded. Being able to watch your run (or anyone else's) is not just fun, it's a fantastic learning tool. If that sounds like something you'd enjoy, then keep reading.  Dustforce DX will never hold the player's hand. Several people ragequit the third TUTORIAL, and a wide number of the advanced mechanics and workings of the game are never explained in-game. To really master this game and understand everything in it, you need to know other people who play it and/or engage on the subreddit and IRC channel. Even if you do that and arm yourself with knowledge: this game is HARD. When you think you've finally gotten good and beaten the game, you have only just begun because you unlocked \"The Difficults\". Honestly even getting that far is going to take you a hundred hours at least, because the only way to unlock new levels is to complete easier levels perfectly. I'll explain...  Dustforce DX has 4 main hub areas of one large world (The Nexus). Each hub has 4 baby levels, 4 easy levels, 4 medium levels, and 4 exceedingly hard levels. Each tier of level above the first is locked by a key, and you earn progress toward keys by playing the levels in the tier below. But the only way to get a full key from 1 single level is to get an SS rank. One S is completion: for cleaning all the dust and defeating all the enemies. The other S is Finesse: for never losing your combo from dying, getting hit, or letting it time out. The game doesn't just reward perfection, it demands it if you even want to see all the stock levels.  Now why did I say stock levels you may ask? That's because the true magic of this game is its INTENSELY POWERFUL level editor. Custom Dustforce Maps (it calls them maps instead of levels) are what keep me playing. This is one of several games where the editor gives you every tool the dev had, letting you make stuff on par with, and often exceeding, the quality of the stock game. You have 20 layers to work with, tons of cool props, almost complete RGB color control and control over the %blend of the color PER LAYER, a♥♥♥♥♥♥ton of props and emitters to place, several things with transparency for awesome effects, and total control over the music and sound effects at every point. The last sentence is very important since this game has a truly amazing soundtrack. Free control over the music in the editor doubles as a sound test, even if you don't enjoy making maps. The nice thing about the leaderboards and replays is that you can watch everyone playing your map once you publish it. That adds another level of enjoyment to the process, a feature missing from several other games with level editors.  There are almost no restrictions on what you can place anywhere, allowing the free mixing of themes from the 4 hubs if you have the skill to make it work. The game is easily moddable and the community has several killer spritemods available, one even turns a character into Kirby! There are several different classes of mods both for art and for performance, and they are all easy enough to find on the subreddit. Sadly they aren't integrated into Steam like with many other games. The community also has several third party tools available for more detailed stat-tracking, new kinds of competition, and even a cool TAS community.  In conclusion, Dustforce DX is a great game and one of my all time favorites. It's not easy to get into: indeed you will struggle if you go it alone and it's still very difficult even with friends beside you. You'll get what you put into it. We still learn things about this game every week; the engine is just that deep. A lot of the quirks in this game are things you just won't find anywhere else. When I say that there's no 2D platformer with the complexity of Dustforce... I mean it.","hours":1560.1,"funny_percent":0.07035175879396985,"helpful_percent":0.9547738693467337}
{"review":"This is my favorite game on Steam","hours":4341.3,"funny_percent":0.029288702928870293,"helpful_percent":0.8242677824267782}
{"review":"How it ends (spoiler) ","hours":60.1,"funny_percent":0.6683417085427136,"helpful_percent":0.7336683417085427}
{"review":"SO TAKE A FEW MINUTES OUT OF YOUR PATHETIC LIFE AND PICTURE THIS FOR A SECOND  YOU'RE A JANITOR NOT SOME SMELLY MINIMUM WAGE JANITOR, NO  YOU'RE A NINJA JANITOR YOU RUN AROUND AT SPEEDS INCOMPREHENSIBLE TO MANKIND, RUN UP AND JUMP OFF OF WALLS, RUN ACROSS CEILINGS, AND JUMP WHILE IN THE AIR ALL WHILE BEING A GOOD CITIZEN AND CLEANING UP THE POLLUTION AMERICA DOESN'T GIVE A FLAMING BADGER'S BUNGHOLE ABOUT  YOU WANT ACTION? THIS GAME'S GOT ACTION AS IF BEING A FLIPPIN' NINJA WASN'T ENOUGH FOR YOU, YOU CAN ALSO BEAT THE HELL OUT OF DIRTY NEVER-DO-WELLS WHICH [SPOILER ALERT] TURN OUT TO BE FRIENDLY CITIZENS WHO WERE CORRUPTED BY THE POLLUTION OF AMERICA  THERE'S FIVE DIFFERENT AREAS AND TWO WAYS TO BE THE BEST AT THEM YOU CAN EITHER BE JESUS INCARNATE AND CLEAN UP EVERYTHING WITHOUT GETTING HIT OR YOU CAN GO FASTER THAN SONIC THE HEDGEHOG AND BEAT THE LEVEL AS FAST AS POSSIBLE I DON'T THINK YOU'RE MAN ENOUGH TO DO IT  WARM UP YOUR BADASS GAUGE IN THE FOREST BY CLEANING UP DEAD FOLIAGE START REACHING SPEEDS OF \"HOLY JESUS\" IN THE CITY BY LITERALLY TAKING OUT THE TRASH HIT YOUR STRIDE IN THE MANSION WHERE THE FAT RICH FARTKNOCKERS CAN'T BE BOTHERED TO CLEAN UP OR SAVE THEIR SMOKIN' HOT MAIDS [WHO ARE ALSO CORRUPTED BY THE EVIL POLLUTION] BECOME A NINJA JANITOR SCIENTIST IN THE LABORATORY WHERE ALL THE POT-HEADS SPILLED TOXIC WASTE EVERYWHERE AND THEN IF YOU'RE A BAD ENOUGH DUDE, ENTER THE VIRTUAL REALITY ROOM AND CRY OUT YOUR PUSS BECAUSE THOSE LEVELS ARE BRUTAL  BUT WAIT YOU THOUGHT THERE WAS ONLY ONE CHARACTER? HAHAHAHA OH WOW THERE'S A GRAND TOTAL OF FOUR JANITOR NINJAS WHO ARE READY TO ANSWER THE CALL TO CLEANING CLEANING UP CRIME DUSTMAN, THE BLUE EVERYMAN WHO THE GAME IS MADE AROUND. LIKES BEING A BADASS AND LONG WALKS ON THE BEACH DUSTGIRL, THE RED FEMALE CHARACTER WHO IS BASICALLY DUSTMAN BUT FALLS FASTER AND HAS DIFFERENT ATTACK RANGES. ALSO WANTS DUSTMAN'S D BUT HONESTLY WHO DOESN'T DUSTKID, THE PURPLE WONDER CHILD WHO ATTACKS FASTER THAN A DRAGONBALL Z FIGHT AND CAN JUMP THREE TIMES. ONLY DOWNSIDE IS HER JUMPS ARE SHORTER THAN YOUR PINKY FINGER AND HER ATTACK RANGE IS MELEE ONLY. SHE'S ACTUALLY FROM THE FUTURE WHERE DUSTMAN AND DUSTGIRL BANG EACH OTHER DUSTWORTH, THE BADASS GRANDPA WHO USES A VACUUM AND DOESN'T GIVE A DAMN ABOUT IT. JUMPS HIGHER THAN ANYONE ELSE AND HAS THE BIGGEST ATTACK RANGE BECAUSE OF HIS RAD VAC. SUCKS THAT HE ATTACKS SLOWER THAN A TURTLE IN MOLASSES. HE MAY BE OLD BUT HE HAS TO BE BADASS IF HE'S PART OF AN ELITE TEAM OF NINJA JANITORS  IS YOUR CROTCH THROBBING WITH ANTICIPATION YET? BECAUSE MINE IS","hours":31.6,"funny_percent":0.24203821656050956,"helpful_percent":0.8343949044585988}
{"review":"This game does not have a skill ceiling. 90 hours in and I've just started learning how to play.","hours":524.1,"funny_percent":0.06349206349206349,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"dusty.","hours":1670.4,"funny_percent":0.16417910447761194,"helpful_percent":0.8507462686567164}
{"review":"Easily one of the best games I have ever played. You really don't know what your limit is when you play this game because you improve so much at first and continue to master this game even after you think you've beaten it.","hours":431.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9130434782608695}
{"review":"Awesome precision platformer. Tight mechanics, deep move set, smooth flow, great music & visuals, clever level design, custom level editor, leaderboards, perfect for speedrunning. It's safe and accessible for all ages, yet it's depth, difficulty, and mechanics make Dustforce worth buying over Super Meat Boy and other precision platforming \"greats\". After 500+ hours this game is still fresh and fun, and I have barely touched the 2000+ user made levels. With this kind of depth and replayability, Dustforce is easily worth the asking price! TL,DR: Janitorial Simulator 2014","hours":548.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9577464788732394}
{"review":"A challenging precision platformer with tight controls and a focus on going fast. It's difficult to overcome the original hurdle of learning the game, but has easy and fun levels to teach you the ropes before hitting the more difficult stuff.  I lost myself about 500 hours ago and I don't see myself resurfacing any time soon. ._.","hours":1970.8,"funny_percent":0.2459016393442623,"helpful_percent":0.9180327868852459}
{"review":"A game that I would be hard-pressed to top if needing to name a game that exemplifies the creed \"easy to learn, difficult to master\". That being said, this game is awesome, period. The design is tight, both in terms of aesthetic and mechanics. When you look at the top runs in a given level, you will find your jaw dropping over and over. It feels like the inputs are done so precisely that only a machine or someone who knows the game beat-for-beat would be able to execute with such precision. And truly, precision is likely the name of the game. You'll come for the challenge and stay, again, for the challenge of trying to perfect your runs. I doubt that anyone coming in fresh to the game will be able to top and particular chart (or even top 10 for that matter) without many dozens, possibly hundreds, of hours invested into it. To this day I'm not sure what control scheme is better suited to this game: a controller (where all relevant buttons are a glide away) or with a keyboard (where all the actions are laid out in a row). A friend of mine, who is far better at this game than I am, swears by the keyboard, and it does sometimes feel like the superior control scheme.  An honorable mention should go out to Lifeformed for a fantastic, near flawless OST. I love it. It is likely in my top 5, in fact. If nothing else, play this game for the music and ambiance alone (or better yet, go buy and support the artist).  Numeric score of 10/10 (10/10 does not mean flawless or perfect, but a truly excellent game that I would recommend to someone, if I had to give them only one game to play on Steam).  A solid game through and through, with the DX update only improving on an already excellent foundation. It may not be for everyone, but if you can do the tutorial and say \"yeah...I get this\", then your time and effort will be rewarded.","hours":11.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Dustforce takes platformers tested by time, such as Megaman and refines the genre to it's maximal potential. Everything is spot on, you are in full control, precise and absolutely magnificent. It takes a while to get used to the gravity, controls and all these essential elements in the game, but even after you got the hang of the basics, there are many more things to master. From combat to advanced techniques, there is always room for improvement.  Dustforce was made for speedrunning, you can clearly see it with the leaderboard and replays of playthroughs of every player's best runs. You can see the best players what exactly they did at every level and learn the routes and have the wonderful experience of speedrunning, where you play the same level for half an hour to get that 0.07 second advantage.","hours":148.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8913043478260869}
{"review":"Dustforce is a lovely game for those that enjoy speedy platformers with an emphasis on control over one's character. The janitors in Dustforce can jump off walls, run up walls, run up ceilings, and perform multiple double jumps by defeating enemies. Gameplay consists of mastering the route through a level to sweep up all the dust while continuing one's combo (which can be done by running over dust or hitting enemies) and avoiding spikes, pits, and enemy attacks. The game employs a ranking system that judges based on completion (how much dust was ran over and how many enemies were defeated) and finesse (how few hits and restarts taken). This game is perfect for those who go for perfect ranks in modern Sonic titles.  However, later levels in the game approach unfair difficulty, spamming spikes and requiring jumps and dashes to be timed down to the millisecond to succeed. Thankfully, it is not necessary to play any of these levels, and the game can be obtained at a price cheap enough to warrant playing only the well-designed levels in the first half of the game.","hours":10.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8666666666666667}
{"review":"No doubt the best platformer I ever played. The challenging leaderboards, the difficulty curve and the (very active) community making custom levels provide endless replayability.  The controls are amazing. Don't let anyone convince you otherwise. A lot of people seem to have problems with them, but maybe it is the momentum-based platforming that's putting them of. Once you get comfortable with the movements, dashing, and attacking enemies, there shouldn't be any problems in reproducing the same moves over and over again.  The soundtrack is great, the graphics are fine, and there aren't really any negatives I could mention. There isn't any reason why you shouldn't pick this up for such a low price.","hours":558.6,"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"A \"Precision Platformer\" that has an Incredible soundtrack and built in leaderboards, making for a game that can become very addictive.  It is easily the best Platformer I have ever played. I heartily recommend this game.","hours":217,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9}
{"review":"there’s a softness, an altogether pureness, in dustforce. it is a starkly wholesome game beyond its surface. the magnitude of how pure is even idealistic and immovable. it’s something that is hard to find in a video game that seeks new horizons. relations, though. the most amazing part about dustforce is the result of its softness. even if you lack the ability to play it - and nearly everyone does - it holds wide appeal. the art and music match the gameplay to a refined elegance. it’s a pacifist game and a performance game without being tailored to either, because it’s still clearly a platformer with all of the philosophy behind it. in motion, it’s wickedly cool and aesthetically moving. skill and display meet innocence and whimsy.  dustforce is ludicrously difficult. it belongs to an elite faction of games I’d describe as harder than hard. the way it’s presented, that fact lays dormant. though loss is common in dustforce, there is no mean-spirit. nothing is out for your blood and none of the platforming is dishonest. what you need to do is nearly always set clearly ahead and it’s all up to your fingers. consequently, and not in a bad meaning, the stages end up feeling more like race tracks than levels. mind you, very stylized race tracks, or race track stages, but very laid-out and bare compared to genre tradition. this feel is accented, arguably engineered, by dustforce’s mode of progression. it doesn’t matter if you only get to the end of a stage in dustforce. you will, it’s always fun to clear a stage, it just won’t let you fully continue.  dustforce’s inspiration and idiosyncrasy is speed running. platformers have always been a speed running favorite. converting art into performance and display, manifesting game and human potential. speed runs are incredible, but there’s an equally incredible entry barrier. the time expenditure needed to participate means that few will experience the overwhelming play. dustforce acts as a bridge. its ranking system enforces perfection. it does not simply weigh down your time a ranking. clear time is not relevant. to unlock levels, you need SS. to get SS, you need a perfect combo with full completion. dustforce’s ranking deals with links. dust you collect on the stage builds up links. hitting dust covered enemies continues links. they are lost when you are hit, go out of bounds, or have about a five second pause since your last link. there cannot be mistakes. speed runs contain no mistakes. though complete perfection is not required, dustforce is unforgiving to even the smallest mistake. finishing a long level from beginning to end, allowed only stylistic mistakes, puts dustforce above a precision platformer to a speed run simulator.  dustforce isn’t the first platformer to demand perfection. I personally love contra for its sheer display and skill or die gameplay. dustforce’s pacifist aura and dedication to a track indeed separate it from any other perfection platformer, but what is most important is dustforce’s fluidity and sense of speed. though in plain movement it is slower than a mario game, a speed run never stops and dustforce doesn’t want you to stop. borrowing two key elements from other very fluid series - mega man X’s dash and modern sonic’s magnetlike fast-fall - and adding their own radical innovations with air dashing, wall runs, and jump refreshes, dustforce has constant varied movement. the combinations and radical changes in input keep you more than engaged, with the coolness of each character’s movement drilling in your performance. the rhythm, intensity, and constant movement translate to feeling unstoppable speed. dustforce’s core is an incredible renovation of tried mechanics with unbelievable vision in its additions. it has its idyllic goal of speed running and it refused accepted conditions. it contributes altogether on its own making both its direction and its core individual and fantastic.  dustforce has a special presentation with a unique goal and altogether new gameplay, so I would be skeptic to ask: how are the levels? by my language, well, this is pretty easy to anticipate. dustforce’s levels are masterful. they allow for all kinds of different and often new naturalizations, realizations, and combinations of their gameplay. the tracks have clear and differing focuses, requiring techniques, hopefully building your repertoire while it remixes its challenges, playing on your expectations. there are huge clearings to cross, towers to climb, ceilings and floors to repel, narrow spiked corridors to squeeze through, enemies to chain your airtime, small platforms to caustically land on, expansive hills to slide through, beautiful spirals to loop around. dustforce isn’t just a very personal and unique idea, it’s a masterpiece of level design. I have qualms for the lack of linear pacing, there isn’t a way to know how difficult a level is going to be, but that’s a very small criticism, and the game still builds from easy stages to hard stages, it’s just done in blocks.  plain to say, combat is not dustforce’s strong suit, and it feels relatively forced. so it is with an absolute lack of understanding that there are four small and constrained levels dedicated to fighting masses of around twenty enemies. to compensate for keyboard controls, for better and worse, dustforce ques moves. when platforming, it gives the game a sort of rhythmic and planned feel based on anticipation and expectation. in the heat of combat, it is awkward. you’ll find yourself locked into quick strikes and unable to dodge obvious enemy attacks, which is frustrating and unrewarding.  another actually affecting flaw is how much singular input influences the character. slight adjustments are impossible. this again compensates for the difficulty to make smalls presses on a keyboard, however it removes from dustforce’s most important aspect: its fluidity. an obvious expression of this is a single block-wide hole with ground on either side of it. pressing right or left will walk over the hole and onto the terrain on the other side. there is no possible way to enter the hole from the ground, you must jump and make the adjustment. yet even if there is slightly more control in the air, it still involves much too large movements, and makes landing on small blocks or falling down in a specific direction imprecise and very much out of your own control, which is somewhat of a deathblow. the hideout is an infamous stage that brings this flaw to light but also serves as a great way to learn how to make the flaw work for you. the keyboard-tailored control is impossible to ignore, and while it is a noble effort, it sadly stains a perfect formula.  dustforce is performance art. the fluidity feels like a dance. the speed feels like superimposed mastery. unlike a rhythm game, there is pure and awesome actualized design depth existing in-addition to the performance. unlike a perfection platformer, dustforce is rarely stressful, instead being meditative, being conductive, being pointed, being beautiful. it doesn’t demand perfection, it encourages it. as dustforce opens up, grows and evolves, so do you as the player. it shows that difficulty can be symbiotic to achieve fully wholesome results. dustforce isn’t do or die. it’s be or don’t be.","hours":43.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9166666666666666}
{"review":"Dustforce is a beautiful, traversal style 2D platformer with a lot of parkour, wall running, ceiling hanging with some light combat. If you're the sort of person that likes exploration and collecting in platformers, Dustforce is right up your dirty alley. First is its beautiful art style that makes it stand out from a heap of other platformers. Then you have a great sense of movement control. You can double jump, dash, run up walls for a brief time, wall jump, cling to a ceiling and move along to it before you ultimately fall off. You can slide down slopes and Yaba-Daba-Do your way off inclines at the end to launch yourself.  The game introduces you to all these incredible mechanics via three tutorial levels. One for traversing, another for combat and the third for advanced techniques such as dash jumping into a double jump to run up a wall. I had to return to the advanced techniques 2 hours into the game to complete it. You are never forced to do anything in the game, but there is definitely a need to perfect these skills.  As a member of dust force, your goal is to clean the world of dirt by touching it. Its easy enough to just run across dirt, making it disappear, but the challenge becomes getting up walls, onto ceilings, and beating the dirt from enemies that gives harmless things a sinister new life. The object of each level is to dust trails of leaves, green glop and other forms of dirt all the way up to defeating a few enemies at the end. There's nothing to differentiate these enemies, one dead end full of enemies might not be the dead end full of enemies you're looking for.  Combat gets relegated to two buttons, a weak attack and strong attack. The strong is only good for larger enemies, because defeating a smaller enemy will only scatter the dirt covering them and you'll still need to clean it. Light attacking enemies in the air gives you an extra jump, so you can double jump, hit an enemy and then jump a third time. As you play, you're also building a meter. When it gets full your character will color trail and pressing both attacks will give an automatic beating to enemies and dirt on screen. Assuming your character will be able to reach them.  There are a few different types of enemies, big hopping heads, angry bears. There are more mundane hovering types either balls of leaves or gargoyles. Green balls of goo that will punch you back, hovering barrels dumping goo beneath them. Even a sort of porcupine that shoots quills or sharp leaves at you. The biggest threat is spikes that cover large areas in later parts of the game. Each spike death or pit in the Nexus or in a level will respawn you.  When going through a level, you don't have to sweep every bit of dust or leaves, but at the end you're graded on your completion and finesse. For everything you clean, enemy or trail of dirt, you build a combo. Finesse gets determined by how high of a combo you score in each level. Getting hit or taking too long to clean something new will break your combo and hurt your finesse grade. Each level is also connected to a global leader board. Getting a \"S\" rank in a level will give you one of three colored keys (copper, silver and gold) to unlock new levels.  The problem is you need to find every level in the game via a hub world called the Nexus. This hub world offers. a real sense of exploration and challenge even to get to these level doors. Some doors are clustered in easy to access areas, but others are for more skilled players. You'll need to slide down ramps and vault over pits, or double cling to ceilings to make it across a bed of spikes. There are even areas that you'll need to time jump, dash, jumps to make it through and then do it again. For every path you take in the Nexus, you'll need to make your way back. Its never as simple as doing the same thing a second time. You'll need to figure out a way to do it or take a different route and hope that it circles back. Other doors are completely hidden and you'll need to get into every nook and cranny to find secrets.  Its not like Metroid where you unlock a new ability, getting there relies completely on your skill. After the first two dozen levels, everything gets a lot more difficult. Its this difficulty that some may love, but it hindered my enjoyment of the game. This Nexus is big and it has to be to fit over 70 levels in it.  Each level starts by letting you select from one of four members of Dustforce. They're all color coated with different looks and ways to clean, but they all play the same. No one has any ability over one another. These characters definitely give the game character and charm. An old man wearing green carrying a vacuum, a brunette in purple with pom poms as dusters, a blue clad janitor with a humble broom and a female version with red overalls.  In fact style summarizes the game as a whole, from the beautiful world with rich backgrounds in a washed out color pallet to the movement and flow of your character. Even the soundtrack has a style that fits the art. Its tranquil synthetic ballads fit perfect into the background of the beautiful cityscape, caves and laboratories.  Outside of the Nexus is a different sort of hub. Its a place that lets you visit the tutorial levels, and even go through previous levels you've beaten. These tomes come in four different books, each for different themes of each level. There's the cityscape, the castle, laboratory and. I'd much prefer flipping through a book to find a level rather than exploring the Nexus, but whatever.  For anyone creative, there's a level editor that lets you make levels in game as rich and beautiful as you'll find in Dustforce. You can even go online to download levels from your web browser. It seems like an extra step that should just be in the game. These levels all have ratings, difficulties and keywords tagged with them so you can find whatever you have a mind for.  There's even local multiplayer survival and king of the hill for up to four local players. I didn't test this or anything so I can't review it until I get a party together on my wide screen to play Dustforce.  Now for the bad stuff, by default there is no controller support, but you can rebind the keys to support your controller. The only problem with that is you still need to hit the ESC key to bring up a menu. Having a menu bind would have been nice, but its hardly a big issue. I've managed to get myself stuck outside of the screen and the camera just wouldn't follow me. Are these enough to ruin a game, no certainly not.  While this is a beautiful game with a lot of fun mechanics, it just feels needlessly difficult to get to levels. Some may like the exploration to find a level or get to a door they see high up above, but it feels like extra padding. Even with all these mechanics the game still just didn't feel like fun. It felt like a chore to go into a level and touch every place with dirt, dust and leaves. Sure I didn't have to, but if I wanted a key I'd have to. In the later hours of my play through I spent more time just getting to the levels.","hours":4,"funny_percent":0.06382978723404255,"helpful_percent":0.8297872340425532}
{"review":"This game was built for perfectionists and speedrunners, and any platformer fan who isn't either of the two will become one after playing Dustforce. The soundtrack is INCREDIBLE and the visuals are great - it's got a shockingly soothing atmosphere for such a hard game.","hours":240.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9565217391304348}
{"review":"I can recommend this game only if you are into platformers fetish, like another run for 0.10s better score, otherwise it is better when you will spent some time making yourself a perfect breakfast which will affect your whole day better than an hour torturing yourself when you arent into this kind of gaming. Dustforce is a very good title as a platformer but, well, not for me.","hours":23.2,"funny_percent":0.11428571428571428,"helpful_percent":0.8}
{"review":"Dustforce is a great game, the only criticism you can give it is that its too hard, and in my mind thats not an issue, as i felt rewarded by getting better and better till i could continue, that said. if you arent the kind of person who enjoys being kicked in the♥♥♥♥♥for a bit until you improve i suggest you avoid dustforce.","hours":53.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8947368421052632}
{"review":"\"I can't beat it, therefore it's a bad game.\" Just... No. This isn't Surgeon Simulator, or Probably Archery, or QWOP.  Dustforce is underrated and unfairly downrated. Whether you're good/not good at it, the game is great. \"Tight and responsive controls\" commonly boil down to \"easy and requiring little brain power\" and lead to less technical capability for a player to utilize. It's one loathesome reason why people say gamers barely use their brains. Blaming the non-status quo movement and momentum physics to justify giving a negative review is a poor, lazy, subjective decision that doesn't do Dustforce justice, especially when many others can actually do it. Refer to Super Metroid for a minute. It's an iconic example of completely breaking the norm for platformers. It fused with action, exploration adventure, and has controls and physics that shatter your experiences if you've only jumped like a Mario or a Mega Man.  Like a fighting game, Dustforce's controls will require some learning and does not give you \"Yeah, I get it\" filler moments. The skill ceiling is much higher. The tricks are much more complex. Good fighting game players know more than to just spam 2 moves. Good platformer players can do more than just run + (double/wall) jump. Also see TotalBiscuit's video review on his YouTube channel for a good, objective take at the game. It's for an old version but the things covered in the video still hold up. One more important thing to note is that this game was not made in Game Maker. Only the prototype was. The finished product uses its own workings built from scratch. Don't be like those fools who don't read/research and bash the game on an incorrect fact.  Dustforce is a difficult game. That doesn't take all the fun away... There will be those incorrect people who think that being bad at a game alone means the game sucks. \"This game sucks\" is not the correct way to say \"I suck at this game\", or \"In reality, I'm too lazy to learn\". The controls, which can be rebound, do have a learning curve that the player is supposed to grow into and be accustomed with. This should not be a problem if you have played fighting games with a competitive/more technical mindset. If not, don't worry. Every player of this game was bad at some point. Just play through the 3 tutorial levels without worrying about getting S/S rank in the beginning. Granted, they're all harder than the first normal levels you will get so don't worry how badly you do, but they're there to show you how the game works of course. Trying to be immediately perfect at something new is an unrealistic and unhealthy mentality. Break things down into smaller pieces at a time. Their varied environments are good to experiment & practice in. You don't have to be the top 10%, or even top 30%, of the leaderboards to really enjoy what Dustforce has to offer.  A while back, this game caught some flak with being compared to another fun, difficult game: Super Meat Boy. I have seen a couple speedruns for both games, including developer commentary during 1 of each run, I've seen \"Indie Game: The Movie\" with its developer coverage of SMB, and have had my hands on both SMB and DF. SMB is great for all its reasons, but it can't be compared to Dustforce since they're fundamentally different games. SMB draws much more on artistic theme. DF draws much more on technical gameplay. It's loud and clear that both games have different target audiences. If it isn't to you, then you gotta look and listen harder. These 2 are not better or worse when placed next to each other. Just different. Apples and oranges, ladies and gentlemen.  SMB is more precision platformer than DF is. DF is more momentum platformer than precision. Here are a few points to think about this situation.  SMB is a bit like: - Super Mario Bros. (Movement, as in there are fewer \"tools\" that the player will have and the environment accounts for most of your choices.) - Classic Mega Man (platforming) - A touch of Super Smash Bros style crossovers  DF is a bit like: - Super Smash Bros. series (Movement, as in there are more \"tools\" for the player to use. Environment alone accounts for less than that of SMB. More on that in a bit.) - Zero's character style from Mega Man X series and classic 2D Sonic (platforming) - A touch of Super Smash Bros combat. It's simply \"hold a direction or not\" before hitting an attack button, but the timings must be right or you'll whiff and button mash like a newbie. The momentum style and Super Smash Bros aspect is even confirmed by one the developers. More info on that in the final paragraph.  Dustforce has more weight on utilizing the system of the character at a deeper level akin to fighting games instead of just mainly interacting with the environments themselves. Players must be thinking about what they can do with their options and what the environment calls for at the same time. Much more of the game is in the player's hands instead of the environment forcing decisions in a 1-sided fashion. DF has more meat on character controls than your typical platformer: dashes, air-dashes, air-down-dashes, normal attack, normal attack + directional mid-air, heavy attack, heavy attack + directional mid-air, wall jump, wall running, ceiling running, slope sliding, momentum preservation after hitting enemies while mid-air, fillable gauge for super AoE attack, etc. All of these interact with the physics of the game to produce even more things. All of these are learned as you go and become natural. At least they should be. More attention on what your character is ACTUALLY doing (not what you THINK s/he should be doing) is a must in this game. Level selection also isn't just a grid with things to select. To play a level, you must clear the platforming section to the door in the hub world. This introduces the techniques required to complete such levels. Difficult levels will need the player to be skilled enough to reach them, let alone complete them.  This game has been featured in Games Done Quick speedrun charity events. The Summer Games Done Quick 2015 run (Any% route) also has one of the developers talking with the runner and commentators. I highly recommend seeing that on YouTube if you're still skeptical on buying this game. The dev comments are great and the pro play will undoubtedly be amazing. There are also \"All levels S/S ranking\" runs to watch. Remember, you don't have to be as good as them to enjoy the game.  Some dev comments from that run to note & more: - They thank the community greatly in helping detect cheated runs to delete off the leaderboards. - It's not so much a precision platformer as much as it is a momentum platformer. Get a feel for how far your momentum can carry you and keep going. If you can't make a jump, did you deliberately decelerate in mid-air or after landing on a platform? (You might wanna call up Sonic for some tips. And fire Mario or Mega Man if they happen to be your tutors who said that they'll teach you everything you need to know about platforming. You got scammed.) - The game is inspired in part by N+, and Super Smash Bros. series. - Coding for the movement and momentum consists of about 5,000 lines to be able to do what it can do. Some minor inconsistencies exist most likely due to rounding errors, but you wouldn't notice unless you were told about them or spent lots of time experimenting. None of these will bar you from completing the game at any skill level (obviously many have already done so) as all physics interactions discovered were tested. - Difficult levels requiring skill to reach and enter in the hub world is a system to help players recognize their strengths and weaknesses versus a traditional level selection screen where players would just get walled and discouraged by surprise difficulty spikes.","hours":3.3,"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":0.9375}
{"review":"tl;dr -> In Dustforce DX you play as a master warrior-janitor on a never-ending quest to rid the world of all dirt and dirt-spreading creatures while listening to a fantastic electronic soundtrack.  I got this game in a bundle, and was really excited to try it because of all the technical gameplay mechanics - like the complex executions you have to use in order to make your run look as seamless as possible. I had watched a few speedruns on YouTube and was pleasantly surprised with the quality of experience provided by Dustforce DX.  If you like cleaning, artsy and smooth platforming gameplay, a stellar electronic soundtrack, chaining combos, score attacks, and challenging mechanics, then you will really enjoy this game.  The aesthetics are great - the detail in the different levels is very high and well-done. The music and sound effects are awesome, and I will provide a link to the OST here because it is that good; I think the only other game OST I ever linked in my review was NEOTOKYO's.  Dustforce DX OST.   The controls are a bit tricky to learn, but the tutorials are very helpful and will ensure you get a firm grasp on the game's mechanics before you start your janitorial runs. You can try using a controller, but the keyboard bindings work just as well. The learning curve is minimal to moderate - one of the most difficult elements of the game is combining the different actions in order to achieve a smooth run. Combos are also essential for reaching many areas in each level and progressing deeper into the game. For example, you may have to wall run upward, double/wall jump several times, and hit a dustball/enemy at the top in order to reach a higher level (and if you do everything except hitting the object at the top, you will not be able to make the climb). Practising and repeating levels will really hone your skills.  Overall, the gameplay is very quick and technical - chaining the proper actions is critical. Once you can achieve a seamless run, the visual aesthetics are so satisfying and rewarding. The main hub will allow you to access the options and all the levels, however, you must unlock new levels by completing preceding ones. There are a good number of levels available for you to test your skills, and the game offers a lot of time value if you are really into speedruns and 100% completion. During your playthrough, you must complete each level in a set amount of time, while maintaining a smooth (finesse) run. If you can finish the stage within the time limit and maintain a good combo bar, then you will achieve a double S rank (best possible score).  For the achievement junkies, there is only one to collect, and this requires you to complete every level by performing the most perfect possible run. I really, really love this type of achievement system in a game, and not the stupid, meaningless artificial-game-lengthener types found in games like Lucius (which I will be reviewing soon) - where you need 20 and 40 game hours when the game takes ~10 hours to complete. No, in Dustforce DX there's just one, challenging achievement that involves you spending quite a bit of time refining your skills and experience so you can obtain those perfect runs.  The game can get a bit repetitive once you've invested a large amount of time, however, the variety in level layout and different enemy types adds lots of playability. There are also different characters with slightly different attributes, allowing for a unique playstyle depending on who you select (ex: one character has quicker drops and longer jump range).  If you like challenging platformers with an emphasis on finesse and score attacks, then you must give this game a try.  Definitely recommend!  Cheers, DJSF @DJSF's Rogue Reviews","hours":3.6,"funny_percent":0.04,"helpful_percent":0.8}
{"review":"Beautiful art. Beautiful music. Beautiful gameplay.  A true joy to play.","hours":12.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7586206896551724}
{"review":"pretty sweet","hours":1982.4,"funny_percent":0.6428571428571429,"helpful_percent":0.7142857142857143}
{"review":"Who would have guessed: a 2D indie platformer can be challenging and difficult and yet be--gasp!--ENJOYABLE?! Considering there seems to be a trend for games that confuse challenge with stress and difficulty with laboriousness, this game is kind of a miracle. For starters, it has a learning curve. Yes: an ACTUAL LEARNING CURVE. You have some brief tutorials to help you get the hang of the controls, with are fairly complex and prety tricky to get right, and soon you're in a \"nexus\" which you can traverse and unlock levels. These levels come in different difficulties, and you hve to beat a certain number of easier levels to get keys and unlock the harder ones. As usual, the controls define about half of the playability and the fun of the game, and they work quite well here. It strikes a balance between fast, fluid, complex and challenging. Yes, it can get annoying and a little innaccurate at times, but those flaws seem to be more due to the natural limitations of keyboard controls rather than the game designers letting them suck deliberately because \"that makes it HARD!!!\". The only thing that does annoy me is how the gravity works: within a millisecond, you'll switch from \"gently floating down\" to \"plummetting like a stone\". I don't think this adds anything to the game. The levels are good, and range from flowing and pleasant to devilishly hard. So far, I've played more than half of the levels, and only one was seriously beyond my skills. The others, at their most difficult, are reasonably doable. Also, you're not expected to simply reach the end of the level: the more dust you clean up, the higher your \"Completion\" rank goes up, and the higher the combo you get at the end, the higher your \"Finesse\" rank (it took me ages to understand what that meant). The higher your ranks, the sooner you get keys to unlock the harder levels. Also, if you're really perverted, you can try to improve your time and improve your rank in the scoreboard. If you like speedrunning, you'll have a field day. Finally, I really enjoy the art style. The visuals are pretty, cartoony and slightly dreamy. The music is nice, and whomever wrote it did a pretty good job at imitating Tycho. Also, you get to choose from four different characters: the guy in blue, and... er... four others. (another gripe I have is that you have to choose your character EVERY TIME you start a level. Sheesh, why not choose once, at the beginning of the game, and let me change it later if I want to?) I'm glad I got this game, and I'm glad for the time I spent on it. I still have quite a lot to play, but I'm already satisfied. Fans of platformers should definitely take notice.","hours":7.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"No reviews for Dustforce? Surely this is a bug...  Dustforce is, and most likely will be, my favorite indie game of all time. I've never really even been into speedrunning platformers, but I absolutely loved this game.  The visuals. They're so simple, and are perfect for this game. It has a lovely look that never gets tiring to look at.  The flow/feel. Dustforce just feels great to play. Whether it's on keyboard or controller, this game has a flow that feels like you're riding through a musical masterpiece.  The soundtrack. Naturally, achieving flawless runs is what you aim for in this game, and naturally, it can get frustrating as the difficulty increases. Thanfully lifeformed (the artist) has created the absolutely perfect soundtrack for this game. The calming tunes are insanely catchy, as well as soothing to the soul as you unfortunately realize you missed a piece of dust 20% through that track you've never SS'd.  The devs. They just seem like awesome people who love making games. They've released their financial information on Dustforce after all it has been through (steam, humble bundle etc), which is a rare thing to do. They also created a level editor and website for people to share! They are currently developing a new game called Spire, which will be an instant purchase for me =]  tl;dr - If you have the tiniest spark of interest after seeing some screenshots or gameplay, buy it and play. You will not be dissapointed; only pleasently surprised.","hours":318.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8333333333333334}
{"review":"A criminally underrated platformer with slick visuals, tight controls, and a terrific soundtrack. Despite (or perhaps because of) the crushing difficulty, getting a perfect score on a tough level is extremely satisfying. If you like tough platformers, definitely check this out.","hours":89.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"Dustforce DX is not an easy to pick up game. I'm one of the best active players in the game atm, and as you can see that my hours reflect the dedication needed to be among the of the best.  However, as a casual game, while the mechanics take some getting used to, they start feeling fluid and cohesive. There are 4 action keys along w/ the arrow keys (I use keyboard), which take a ton of time to get into muscle memory. But as the difficulty increases and the game keeps teaching you different mechanics, the satisfaction from beating a difficult level is immense. The soundtrack, composed by one of the devs of the game, is simple and elegant IDM, creating a calmer atmosphere, even in the middle of spikes.  I'd highly recommend this game to fans of technical platforming and those who enjoy a real challenge and have real patience in gaming. If you want to achieve a really good time, or complete that really difficult level, it'll take a while to get there. But I think the dedication and payoff is worth it.","hours":1464.6,"funny_percent":0.05555555555555555,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"This has to be my favorite platformer on steam at the moment. I've put in 35+ hours as of writing this review, and I'll put in plenty more trying to SS every level. The difficulty ramps up quite a bit as you make your way through each level, and the seemingly simple controls open up to some fantastic speed tech once you learn a few tricks. With a replay system that allows you to watch anyone's play through of a level, you'll want to go back and improve your time trying new techniques you see other players use. It can get quite competitive between you and people on your friends list as you try to one up each other. The music is absolutely glorious. The OST itself is a great buy, definitely have that on rotation in my playlist. The art style is simple and clean, the animations are smooth and the game looks and feels better and better the faster you go. If you enjoy difficult precision platformers, or love games with mechanics that allow you to go fast, this is a purchase you won't regret.","hours":70.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.85}
{"review":"If you dislike speed-running, you won't enjoy this game.  If you aren't willing to try and go faster, the first half is about as exciting as a walking simulator.  If you aren't willing to master the various tricks needed to go faster, the second half will be a lesson in gaming masochism.  But if you do, or are willing to learn,  Broom! Robe! Do not lose them, we are not made of money! ","hours":85.1,"funny_percent":0.23529411764705882,"helpful_percent":0.8823529411764706}
{"review":"I do like this game, but I have a lot of trouble recommending it to anyone. The decisions the developer made here seem actively antagonistic to new players. I would have to link the game along with 3-4 different guides just to make sure whoever I recommended it to had a decent chance of enjoying it. If you have all the information it really is quite good. It's just that the game never bothers to give you the information you need in order to enjoy it.  Here are the things wrong with this game.  1) The tutorial is too hard. Instead of spreading the 3 tutorial levels out over time the game requires you to be able to execute even the advanced mechanics right from the beginning. I imagine some casual players may not even be able to complete these 3 tutorial levels. These levels also lack any kind of flow, and so they're also just bad levels in general.  2) The tutorial is too short. The tutorial doesn't explain some very key movement mechanics that are profoundly unintuitive to the point that they are literally the opposite of reality. There's a hidden \"charge\" system the game never explains that allows you to either dash or jump in mid-air. Not all of the cases where the recharges happen are explained and so the player is left without enough information to even begin to tackle anything past the first 15 courses. The player is forced to look up a guide online or spend a lot of time randomly button mashing in order to progress.  3) The \"overworld\" is dumb and confusing. Instead of the devs bothering to figure out which order the levels should be in the game has you exploring these 4 zones between the worlds in order to find new levels. Sometimes this requires executing extraordinarily difficult platforming tricks as well as a key obtained from doing really well on previous levels. The layout of this zone is very confusing, and it is very very very very very frustrating having to deal with a dumb mini-game just to get to the next course. The courses are hard enough on their own. I already did well enough on the courses in order to get the key. Just let me pick them from a menu, and don't lock content behind meaningless redundant skill gates you didn't think through properly before you implemented. It's very easy to get stuck.  4) Keys aren't explained. The game doesn't explain adequately how to obtain keys. This leads to being stuck until you look up a guide online that explains how to get more keys.   5) Key colors are difficult to differentiate. I'm a little bit color-blind. The game has like 5 key colors. I can only differentiate between silver and \"the rest of them.\" They bothered to make the key icons look different, but not the locks. So good luck being able to figure out where to take a key you just obtained because a) the lock colors are all very similar and b) you might not even be able to get there due to point #3.  6) Character differences are not explained. 2 of them are quite similar while the other 2 are quite different from all others. It would have been nice to have been told by the game why I should ever choose a different character than the default.  In conclusion, I do like this game, but don't be afraid to look up guides on how the mechanics of the game work. It's really not fun if you don't do that.  I also want to reiterate again that the entire concept of The Nexus feels very much like the dev fell in love with their own \"clever\" idea, and never bothered to think through the ramifications of what they were doing. I'm sure it took a lot of time to build and design, but it only ever serves to frustrate and impede player progress to new courses. Just save yourself the trouble and look up a YouTube video that shows how to navigate to all the courses along with a map of door lock colors. You will have a much better time of it.","hours":61.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.75}
{"review":"Good music, neat visuals and great platforming. The type of game that rewards you for your time spent by giving you more freedom for mastering its movement. If you like challenging platformers then this game is for you.","hours":1293.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9090909090909091}
{"review":"This game deserves the fame that Super Meat Boy got.","hours":0.3,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8461538461538461}
{"review":"Fun","hours":3807.2,"funny_percent":0.10526315789473684,"helpful_percent":0.7368421052631579}
{"review":"Brilliant momentum-based platformer. Calm music, well-designed levels and very comfy art. Game has no cons.","hours":58.2,"funny_percent":0.16666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.8333333333333334}
{"review":"One of the most fluid and beautiful looking (and sounding) platformers i've played in years. The intense feeling of flow you get when you run through a course and everything clicks is really amazing. Not for the faint of heart, of course, but for those of us who've always loved platformers, i would say it is a must :)","hours":7.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8461538461538461}
{"review":"My video review:  YouTube™ Video: Dustforce Review  Views: 3,800 My review of Dustforce, enjoy! Written copy: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1Icbh81-RZRHoGcHBt9aWxKDRPx0l492R1QzQafnVbwA/edit ","hours":19.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Dustforce is perhaps the best platformer of its kind that I've ever played. It's slick, beautiful, and most importantly the movement feels perfect.  The gameplay is what you expect it to be - you progress from level to level, attempting to complete it as fast as possible (with global leaderboards on time). Additional depth is added by the inclusion of your broom, used to sweep 'dust' as you run and hit 'enemies' with, building up a combo which you are rated on along with the time. Although initially the game may seem laggy or unresponsive, within a few hours you become accustomed to how the momentum and motion works in the game and begin to understand that the opposite actually holds. The game gives you perfect control, and punishes the tiniest of your mistakes.  That's really where the beauty lies. The skill ceiling is incredibly high, obvious to see if you watch a speedrun of this game. The game encourages you towards this perfection, and indeed the only achievement in this game is one of completing it - a feat few people (myself not included) have achieved. There's no RNG in the game, it's just you and how you play. This is certainly not for everyone, but for those few who don't like grinding and obtaining perfect muscle memory, the game hits all the right buttons  It is also worth mentioning the soundtrack. Some games have terrible music. Some games have good music for the game. Some have soundtracks that are amazing standalone, and this is one of them. It's (largely) calm, electronic stuff that's perfect for relaxing or concentrating too. Look it up on youtube - Fastfall by Lifeformed is the album.  For me, it's one of my favourite games ever, and I haven't even put that much time into it.","hours":244.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"This is quite the unique platformer. Instead of simply jumping from any ordinary platform to the next, it takes some sort of pseudo-Sonic approach of fast paced, all-surfaces high-octane super-platforming.  Let me be frank: this game is hard. Sure, it does a good job of easing you into it, but this isn't just some casual romp. Be prepared to put all your effort into getting constant SS ranks if you want to explore all the game's content.  The visuals are pleasing and colorful, just a nice view for the eyes. The music is likewise calm and soothing techno, which is just as well to ease you from the rage that will transpire.  The game controls butter smooth, and has a lot of depth from a rather simple means of traversing the maps. I did have one complaint about the controls, namely the lack of complete controller support. Most basic buttons are there, except the menu button. I can't even count how many times I've had to restart, and I have to do it all from going to the keyboard to press escape. Is an extra respec option too much to ask for? EDIT: Though there is no option to respec the escape menu in the controls, I found that the \"instant restart\" key in another menu is able to be bound to a controller button, which is quite swell.  Another complaint I have, though not with the game, is the lack of community attention. When exploring the nexus, it is entirely up to me to find the one bronze door that I still have a key for, and it still eludes me because no one has a nexus map uploaded.  All said, it's crazily addictive to the right people, namely: twitch-reflex, practice-based skill games that never stop the action.","hours":15.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Here is the thing. This game is not for everyone. It doesn't reward you with stupid stuff like other games. The reward is satisfaction of getting a good ranking.   The music is some of the best in any game ever. The controls are great albeit hard to get used to. This is a beautiful game and you will have a beautiful time playing it if you give it a chance and let it grow on you.  ","hours":18.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Pros: .Super fun after you learn how to play fluidly .Amazing soundtrack (10/10) .A leaderboard-replay system that really fits into the game .Even if you manage to complete ALL the levels, a lot of users are still uploading maps in the 'atlas'.  Cons: .Can be discouraging at the first hours .Needs some small updates .steam sale not found  The tutorials in Dustforce are the tip of the iceberg.  9/10","hours":92.2,"funny_percent":0.1,"helpful_percent":0.9}
{"review":"Extremely clean.","hours":7.5,"funny_percent":0.6666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.8333333333333334}
{"review":"Dustforce is imo the best platformer ever made. The crispest of controls combined with a beautiful art style and a nice soundtrack. 10/10","hours":45.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8181818181818182}
{"review":"You clean bears.","hours":128.1,"funny_percent":0.7105263157894737,"helpful_percent":0.6052631578947368}
{"review":"Best platformer ever.","hours":52.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"This game... is so much fun !!! Great relaxing soundtrack, smooth non-restrictive gameplay and a lot of hidden techniques to compete with other people. Retrying is extremely quick, dying animations are fast and let you try again instantly. Best leaderboards I've seen in a while. You can watch every single replay whether it's the current world record time or some dudes 10000th ranking try. It's awesome and it's a must buy for everyone who likes to be challenged !","hours":250.4,"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":0.75}
{"review":"In this unique and challenging platformer you play as an acrobatic janitor, it is very HARD as some levels requires perfection to complete but I never thought that cleaning up leaves could be that funny. The soundtrack is great and the well polished animations makes the game always entertaining. The only downside is that you need to configure your controller (xbox360) manually.","hours":0.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"This is one of my favorite games. The controls and movement feel so good. In the beginning when you haven't learned the mechanics it feels sort of clunky, but as you improve the game develops a really nice flow. This makes mastering levels really satifying. In most platformers I just want to make it through each level and move on. This was the first game where I found myself revisiting levels just because I wanted to do a better job.  Another great part of this game is the way they handle the learning curve. There are plenty of levels that a beginner can approach, and each of these helps teach you the tricks and strategies you'll need to tackle the more difficult parts. They never spoon-feed you any technique, but instead let you develop it yourself as you work your way through. It almost feels like your character is leveling up and learning new abilities throughout the game, but it's actually just you getting better.","hours":121.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"If you haven't given Dustforce a shot by now, you should. The skill ceiling is way up there, but the game is also relaxing to play casually. Dustforce's mechanics are a fairly unique form of movement to traditional platformers, so the basics may feel clunky at first as you try to understand how to use your abilities sufficiently. If you've played Melee, Dustforce will be no stranger to you.  If you're worried about the game's difficulty, there are bountiful community resources to help you improve. Even if you're not the competitive type, learning the mechanics will make the game much more interesting to navigate beyond the bouncy music and cheery visuals, plus it'll cut down on frustration trying to SS the later levels.  Completionists and speedrunners will get the most out of this game. Exploration is awarded with secrets hidden in nearly every level, and the community loves healthy competition in the leaderboards.  After 400 hours of (online and offline) play, there's a reason Dustforce is my favourite game of all time.","hours":340.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Worth every penny. 10/10  Game's core features: Dusting/Sweeping Different Playable Characters Platforming Parkour Special Gague Level Evaluation/Grading System (S, A, B, C, D) Easy Controls Semi-Open environment  Dusting/Sweeping: If you couldn't tell already the main idea behind this game is dusting levels with a tool that varies depending on what character you play as.  Different Playable Characters: There are four playable characters, each have different tools they use to clean up the dust with: A kitchen Broom, a Push Broom, Feather Dusters and a Vacuum, each of these somehow seem to complete the characters personality, even though so far there hasn't been any dialogue. Each character has a different \"Style\" of moving about, not really sure how to describe it, but there is a slightly different feeling between each of the characters.  Platforming: Not much to say here, you jump from platform to platform, however i will say the platforming isn't very repetitive and just feels right.  Parkour: Not Minecraft-Style \"parkour\", we're talking runing up a wall to jump to the next wall, then jump off of that wall to reach a platform, dash to get speed jump and RUN ON THE CIELING of the next platform to procede to the next section of the level, it's incredible and you feel like a champ for pulling off these stunts.  Special Gague: As you progress through each level and clean up dust, a gague at the bottom of the screen will slowly start filling up, once this gague fills completely, you can use a special move. This move is incredibly useful and does not change depending on which character you are (in one way I am glad that that's how it works, however in another way I am slightly dissapointed...) when you activate your special move your character will flash across the screen cleaning up all the dust within a certain radius of the character. It looks very much like a scene from a typical fighting anime show, but it's funny cause it's just them cleaning up dust.  Level Evaluation System: You are graded on two criteria after completing a level: How much of the dust you clean up in a level (Completion), and how many times your combo meter gets set back to 0 (Finese). S is the highest grade you can reach and D is the lowest (at least I think, it's the lowest I've gotten...). Once completing a level you will be awarded points towards different keys whih will allow you to complete other levels in the game.  Easy Controls: At the begining of the game you are bombarded with lots of information that seems a bit overwhelming at first, however the levels in each area ease you into learning the controls and before you know it, it's like second nature to you and you're pulling off nice fluid parkour tricks.  Semi Open-Environment: Each actual level is actually not connected to another, however, you don't choose the level from the menu, instead you're navigating your character to the next doorway wich will take you to the level. It would be like the old Mega Man X games met Super Metroid. Even the game menu is navigated this way.  Other Features: Hand painted graphics and a really nice \"chill out\" styled soundtrack. Reminescent of an old Sega Genesis or SNES game.","hours":44.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"The Best platformer currently on Linux. Probably the best 2d platformer ever.  Cons: -Difficulty Curve definately not for newcomers of the platforming genre, or for impatient people. As this game is throughly made around it's mechanics. You will fail, you'll die, you'll be enraged when you can't beat a tough section. Infact I first made a joke review saying how you'll love the tutorial, because I could not get to the 3rd tutorial, Yes not beat, get to. This is also how dustforce teaches new players. By tempting a challange and use the player's curiousity to solve the issue. -Story The closest thing to a story is the opening sequence (Which can be disabled), and probably the multiplayer, but this is not a major issue. As the game was clearly not designed for story.  Pros: -Graphics Dustforce uses a vibrant and simplistic artstyle. It's soothing to look at, completely complementary to the gameplay. Your 5 enviroments are distinctive, the tranquil forest, the grimy city roof tops, the minimalistic virtual levels, the haunting manor levels, and the futuristic lab levels. However they are not so distinct that you get tired of seeing them. A forest level might have a noon set stroll while another is at peaceful midnight.  -Effects The effects blend the artstyle and gameplay into a satisfying adventure. When you get that tail glow, not only does it look awesome, but helps keep track of your super attack. The trash particles when you sweep them up, feels rewarding, but also gives you visual feedback that you hit that part and you don't need to look back. Which helps the main concept of this game. -Music Like the Graphics, the music is reciprocal to the tough gamplay. Relaxing, and energetic the music calms the player. The devs knew it's not supposed to be snowing on your parade, so they took their cider time, and made their world a safe place to sleep. If you can't handle the frustrating 9-Bit expedition this game provides. Then buy this soundtrack. -Gameplay This is Why dustforce is the contender for best 2D platformer of all time. The platforming is fast paced, and gratifying. Nailing those jumps you once couldn't do as a newbie, is a sensation I rarely get from other platformers, but here it's every level. Hitting enemies and hearing that sweet SWACK sound is delightfully empowering. Even the hub world provides a amusing playground. The controls and fluid movement take some time to get use to, but you'll take to it like walking. -Level Design No other game knows itself better than dustforce. Their are several parts where you think, this can't be possible. But try, you'll get it eventually. Infact plottwists for this game is finding the new ways you can run in your virtual earth. The story of this game is it's gameplay.  -Level Editor You'd be suprised at the complexity of this thing, it offers basic building blocks and enemy placement, to light configurations and dynamic camera angles. The community maps are a treat, and diverse thanks to this robust editor.  -Multiplayer A fun distraction, very limiting because you have such a small arsonal, but a good time with friends. -SpeedRuning Normally I would not list this as a positive or negative, but man, Dustforce lives by it's speed running community. I'll never be as good as Luffy, Thor, or Freshmanic. But I love trying to beat the guy at 784th place on the leader boards, especially when I succeed.  Conclusion: Play this game. I don't care if you get the steam version, playstation, or even if you pirate it. This game is a must play for fans of platformers.","hours":41.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
