{"funny_percent":0.015037593984962405,"helpful_percent":0.6661609118853759,"review":"A Game doesn't have to be similar to another Game to be Great, but it never hurts to Try  Introduction  When talking about a game made by a fan-favorite creator of good ol' Resident Evil 4, Shinji Mikami, expectations have arisen. I loved playing RE4 on my Gamecube, and then again on the PC trying to get almost all achievements. Can The Evil Within win my heart as RE4 did so long ago? It did to a degree, but not entirely.  I've just finished Nightmare mode as of writing this, so I have a fair evaluation of the game.  Story  The story revolves around a detective by the name of Sebastian Castellanos who was just called in after just coming off a case. The report was multiple homicides at Beacon Mental Hospital.  After a rather odd noise is heard and nearly driving off the road, the detective and his two companions Joseph and Kidman, walk to the door.  From here, I will not spoil, but the result is a often confusing mess of information that some people will not understand until later. The story gives you bits and pieces no solving it, while not entirely giving it away. Even after the end, I still was scratching my head a little in regards to some of the story. However, I found myself figuring out the main plot rather easily, but just missing some parts at the end. It also didn't completely answer some questions which knocked points off for me.  A person has to pay very close attention to the details and information in the game to properly understand the story in its entirety which I will admire though.  Note I'd advise after finishing the game, to take a look at the bonus trophy section. It explains a LOT more then you'd realize.  Rating 7 1/2  Gameplay  Here is where a few similarities will come into play, but we'll hold off on that.  The gameplay is 3rd-person shooter, with emphasis on action, and some stealth mixed in. Stealth I would like to point out, is crucial in some areas to save ammo, especially on harder difficulties. Over the course of the game, you're given different weapons, craftables, and more besides.  Difficulty is at a good pace. You have Casual for players that aren't as good and who just want to enjoy the story, you have survival which is basically normal mode, Nightmare which can be hard at times but much more fun then survival. Sadly you cannot access it until you beat Survival. Then we have Akumu.....I'll be honest and say that I tried to do this, but then when I realized that I'd have to face certain areas where I'd often get nicked, I did not want to go through that torture. Akumu is basically one-hit-you-dead. (masochist mode)  One thing that people have often complained about is the spikes in difficulty at parts. I'd like to alleviate those fears and say that while they're difficult, it just requires a different approach. Once I figured out an easy way to stop enemies with a certain craftable, I was much more happy.  The creep factor is nicely prominent in the beginning 3-to-5 (depends on the person) chapter areas, but begins to lose ground as you progress and get used to the enemies, and the shock factor just deteriorates. Each new chapter contains several little hidden nooks and cranny's that treasure hunters will sure to love. (seriously some hiding spots are EXTREMELY hard to find if you're not looking carefully)  New Enemies appear at a decent pace which I like, and some will eventually have new things given to them. It's sad that they threw out one of THE most creepy mobs in the game later on which left me kinda sad because they were so unpredictable at times.  Bosses have a good difficulty to them. Not too easy, but not too hard either  The game, sadly, is rather linear. This took some points off for me.  You'll face various things like bombs, traps, and more. You'll play little minigames of defusing a bomb and it's a risk, but the rewards are extra parts to craft items later.  Rating 7   RE4 Mechanics are here and the nostalgia is oh, so sweet!  Enemies dodge just like RE4 We got our loving Sadist (not spoiling but you-know-who that refers to in RE4) Enemies will point at you and react to you just like RE4 Ammo is Scarce like RE4  Only thing that wasn't as prominent: You can move while aiming down sights! You can reload AND run without having to stop and pause in the middle of enemies! BLASPHEMY V  (Just a joke haha)  A Final Verdict  So has this game lived up to RE4 and rekindled my love? Partially. It has several elements that I liked, but others I didn't.   It's a good game with some flaws that hold it back from being GREAT. Hopefully the upcoming The Evil Within 2 will address some story plot, gameplay, (either get rid of stealth or make it better just choose one dang it!), better level design, and a few other quandaries that I had.  My Final Verdict 7 1/2  It's a very fun game with some RE4 nostalgia, and replayability. I recommend it. ","hours":41.8}
{"funny_percent":0.3488372093023256,"helpful_percent":0.7754749978692075,"review":"Be me  Start game Confident I can overcome most threats Few hours into the game I have a handgun and some matches See large zombie chained next to a chest My greed gets the better of me as I deperately hope for long awaited good supplies in the chest I steady my nerves and draw the pistol My aim sways since I am still new Line up shot of large beast of a zombie Finally pull the trigger Direct hit Notice zombie still grunting  My heart beat rises as I realise I have only made him angry He breaks his restraints and picks up a chainsaw I turn to flee and realise my mistake The noise from my pistol alerted the horde They pour in behind me from the windows and breaking down a door I punch one before being hit and shoving another I flee through the newly broken door the horde running after me along with the newly freed butcher Desperently make my way to a gate Locked The horde advances Quickly kick down door of house next to gate  I start to panic as I realise the door I went through was the only exit Run up stairs to try to stall the horde with what few pistol shots I have left There is the corner on a chair I see it A crossbow I sprit to it and pick it up  The horde has already broken in the door and is making their way up the stairs All I hear the the hordes screams and the butchers chainsaw I take shakey aim with the cross bow as my last hope Fire Its an Explosive bolt! The horde is cut to pieces and those not dead on the ground This is my chance The butcher now seeing me and fully awake sprints at me I shoot and hit directly in the chest The bolt explodes and he is still standing While he is dazed from the explosion I make my way down stairs I craft another bolt from traps I disarmed earlier He shambles down the stairs after  Take my last panicked shot Upper chest It explodes he goes down Burn the bodies Overwelming sense of victory and bad assery flood my body 11/10 would recommend","hours":13.4}
{"funny_percent":0.019230769230769232,"helpful_percent":0.8993884267638101,"review":"A tittle by the master of horror himself! The spiritual successor of Resident Evil driven over the edge.  You may experience fps annomalities, type this (below) in the launch options of the game and VIOLA! Runs beautifully!  +r_swapinterval 0","hours":14}
{"funny_percent":0.04285714285714286,"helpful_percent":0.7281957620874538,"review":"The Evil Within is a must-have for people who love Survival Horror games. It feels heavily similar to Resident Evil 4 in terms of gameplay. The story is interesting, and you'll need to finish the game to truly comprehend it. It has some messed up monsters and creepy places. If you plan on playing this, you'll most likely get goosebumps many times during your playthrough. One of the rare survival horror games I actually finished more than once.  If you're into gore, horrific monsters, a humanly scary story and creepy places: this is a game for you.","hours":270.9}
{"funny_percent":0.024390243902439025,"helpful_percent":0.9006530847080007,"review":"In fact, this game fulfilled what it promised.  The Evil Within brings back the genre \"SURVIVAL HORROR\", in which you:  - feels the need to flee instead of fighting; - inflicts deadly enemies; - has few resources like ammunition and healing items; - Need patience to wait for your enemies to pass so you can continue on your way; - finds enemies who persevere in persecuting him relentlessly; - Gathers strategies to save ammunition, heal or even avoid confrontations, among others.  The game reminds many of the classic games of the series RESIDENT EVIL, for having the same style and the same director.  Although it is only a game \"SURVIVAL HORROR\" (not \"PSYCHOLOGICAL TERROR\", like OUTLAST, for example), I found a great acquisition, different.  Highly recommended !","hours":17.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9494513777315734,"review":"Best Shinji Mikami game to date. I honestly never thought i would say those words after Resident Evil 4 but this game proved me wrong. There is something about the environment and the whole world of TEW that makes it so appealing for me. The amount of weirdly varied locations in the game is something i would love to see more of in other games. One moment you're in a mansion and then the next, you're in a farm full of sunflowers. Its crazy, it doesnt make any sense and you will scratch your head by what you're witnessing and by the end of the game, you will most likely say \"WTF is going on here?\"  Its defintely not for everybody but there is a lot to love for those who enjoy horror and Shinji Mikami titles.   10/10 would get my head smashed again by Laura ;)","hours":76.7}
{"funny_percent":0.15254237288135594,"helpful_percent":0.6505021103242267,"review":"Completed my halloween theme game for october 2016.   After playing this, i can say this is the best Resident evil game ever. Oh this isnt resident evil? by the creator of resident evil, but its not resident evil, you say? I dont care. This is what resident evil 6 and beyond should be or strive to be. The game pacing in this game is great and is officially the best survival horror game i've ever played. The combat is satisfying and getting that head shot is relieving in a sexual manner. (j/k)  I'll end this and say this game is one of the better games that works so well with the Steam Controller.","hours":23.3}
{"funny_percent":0.013986013986013986,"helpful_percent":0.8473764848731208,"review":"Never been much into the horror genre but I've become a big of fan of Bethesda published games recently (DOOM, Wolfenstein, Prey, Dishonored, etc) so I thought I'd give this a shot. Boy am I glad I did. Loved just about every moment of it. Good combat, intricated level design, amazing atmosphere, interesting characters, and a pretty decent story. I know this is game is somewhat devisive among Resident Evil fans but from the perspective of someone who's never played an RE game I thoroughly enjoyed it. 10/10 would recommend.","hours":34}
{"funny_percent":0.038461538461538464,"helpful_percent":0.6648915455103285,"review":"As someone who has 100% completion status on both the main game and all DLC, this game is incredibly good. The story and pacing can be difficult to understand, but this is all made to be intentional as the world the game takes place in is incredibly erratic and ever-changing. The collectibles in this game fill in the blanks and help to flesh out the story quite well, rewarding thorough exploration of each area you go through. It's like Resident Evil 4 but with an amazing story and amazing controls... what you would get if you mixed Silent Hill + Resident Evil and then added good gameplay and a deep lore. Everything has symbolic and deeper meaning than what the surface shows in this game. Resource management is scarce even on Survival difficulty, and managing resources along with upgrades properly will make a big difference in how you progress. Decent stealth mechanics, and a plethora of ways for you and the enemy to interact with each other. There is no shortage of awesome and creative ways to sneak past enemies, silently kill them, or (provided you have the ammo) run in guns blazing. The enemy AI is very fun and challenging on most difficulties, and you'll be sighing with relief every time you clear an area.   A word of caution, however. I do not recommend you try out 悪夢(AKUMU) difficulty unless your intention is to Platinum this game or something. By far one of the hardest challenges I've ever done in survival horror, you thought RE5 Professional or Doom 3 Nightmare were hard? No, The Evil Within on 悪夢(AKUMU) takes cheapness to a WHOLE NEW LEVEL. First of all, ONE HIT of ANY kind will kill you. If Sebastian takes ANY damage whatsoever, he will die. It will make you want to scream and smash your controller, I promise you this. An almost robotic amount of self control is needed to get through that difficulty mode. 悪夢(AKUMU) literally stands for \"worst nightmare\" and well it really is. Enemies have massive health and speed increase, huge hit detection, field of vision the size of a football field making stealth nearly impossible, enemies with 100% accuracy and can fire 2 sniper bullets in a row without even reloading... erratic zigzag attack patterns that cannot be predicted as they are based on pure RNG... more bear traps and explosive mines than you can count... there's even a part where you are forced into a cutscene and if there are any Haunted left alive, they will kill you and there is nothing you can do about it as you are forced to be still in a cutscene. This mode was not really well thought out IMO, it's almost as if the devs said \"You guys know what would be THE MOST f***** up thing we could add?\"    Other than that I 100% recommend this game to anyone and everyone interested in the genre.","hours":104.1}
{"funny_percent":0.050724637681159424,"helpful_percent":0.8327113164806386,"review":" The Evil Within  A Screenshot of The Evil Within By: SABINA  I remember when the pre-launch trailer for The Evil Within hit the media. Bethesda plying it's hand to horror, with Shinji Mikami at the helm, it looked like everything I had ever hoped for in a horror game. Expectations were high. Then it was released and I read the negative reviews with chagrin. My heart sank. And so I waited. I tried the demo and was... underwhelmed. Finally it went on sale for 8.49US and that seemed a reasonable risk. If nothing else, the atmosphere alone was worth the sale price.  This is one of those games that is difficult to recommend, but the aspects that I didn't like aren't quite enough to not recommend it. The atmosphere and graphics are genius, superbly well done. The gameplay however, is lackluster and often irritating. Instead of jump-scares, there are jump-murders. You may suddenly, without any warning or provocation, be killed. The game wants to teach you how not to get killed, by killing you repeatedly. While this is not new in games, and is even much lauded in some games, it is irritating here. The learning curve is made deliberately steep, and it is not an easy game to complete.  Complicating this aspect is the player movement mechanics, coupled with picky hit-boxes and quirky targetting for item interactions. Stealth is almost never a viable option, and renders the dev's assertions, that you can own your play-style, disingenuous. The game soon devolves into a run-n-gun, mash this button 400 times, cut-scene formula. My least favorite aspect is that the game takes over the camera far too often, making it feel as if you really have little control. It is almost a laughably absurd level of player control hijacking. I understand if the director has a vision and he just really wants you to experience it the way he intended, but it feels bullyish and invasive. This theory is backed by the fact that there are no settings to change the post-processing affects in the game. You see it the way it was intended, or not at all. These issues have been addressed in other reviews, but still, not enough to not recommend it.  Another aspect that has been addressed is the feeling of disconnected, disjointed levels. And the fact that this may be due to each level being an homage to other games, as if the game itself is a collection of Easter Egg levels. Many masterpieces of horror are given a nod here. While I do love the levels, it still leaves one feeling as if it's a puzzle with beautiful pieces that just don't fit together. While it may be an homage to past masters, it ends up feeling, more than anything, like Shinji Mikami's homage... to himself.  All in all, I have to recommend The Evil Within for hard-core horror fans, even if only for the atmosphere. That is were this game truly excells. And while I enjoyed immersing...basking...even bathing... in the environments for the very first time, the sum of all the little nit-picks prevent any desire to experience them a second time.  The Evil Within  A Screenshot of The Evil Within By: SABINA ","hours":30.4}
{"funny_percent":0.05,"helpful_percent":0.8531604901105755,"review":"It's a fun game. It's not over the top fantastic, but there's enjoyment to be had here. It's Bethesda's response to Resident Evil(I believe they got a director for Resident Evil.) It'll feel like an American Resident Evil with more intuitive controls.  Pros: Combat rewards both stealthy and aggressive play Combat gives a satisfying response from enemies Enemies are neat Atmosphere is really fantastic and consistent Agony crossbow Detective Side Story adds some character to the game  Eh: Main character is kind of generic Story is predictable  Cons: This isn't really a survival horror. I never felt so low on ammo to feel threatened, and I always had enough health. I died a lot, but enemies were extremely powerful. I wanted to feel afraid, but I never quite reached that point. Game feels cheap sometimes. Controls are a little weird and response can be odd. Buggy. (But it's a Bethesda game.)  Overall, there's a lot to be enjoyed. It's not going to be the best survival horror, because it's really afraid to push what it offers. It is really enjoyable though. I appreciate the more psychological aspect, but it's more of an action/adventure horror game. It never once felt like a survival horror game. It's fun though. Just not fully what I expected.","hours":16.5}
{"funny_percent":1.0350877192982457,"helpful_percent":0.9677294197231253,"review":"I shot a bird, and it dropped ammo... I suddenly got hit by a massive wave of nostalgia","hours":72.5}
{"funny_percent":0.03225806451612903,"helpful_percent":0.8695046612156712,"review":"Awesome game, much better than the latest Resident Evils... Had great times playing it and I am going to repeat the experience in hard mode. If you enjoy horror games this is a must buy.","hours":19.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7119634440744456,"review":"If there was a lovechild between Silent Hill and Resident Evil, The Evil Within would be it. At the time of writing, I've reached the final boss and I honestly can't understand why this game got so many bad reviews. It is very well paced, combines stealth and action, the boss monsters are grotesquely awesome and the story is good enough to keep me interested. Brings more to the table than RE and SH have in years. Bethesda got this one right, third person survival horror at its finest.","hours":14.5}
{"funny_percent":0.05660377358490566,"helpful_percent":0.6641387261786108,"review":"Just finished the game and I loved every bit of it. This is my first survival horror game and because of it it won't be my last. Personally, I thought the story was great. There were a couple nights where I found myself up at like 2 a.m. because I wanted to see what was going to happen next or I wanted to finish the chapter. The gameplay is great and is features one of the best upgrade mechanics.   Ran perfectly, everything a from safe alt tabbing experience and a never dropping below 60 Fps is what The Evil Within provided. Had zero problems with using a controller and the mouse and keyboard controls were good.","hours":20.7}
{"funny_percent":0.041666666666666664,"helpful_percent":0.687861887849176,"review":"i'm not gonna lie, I like this game, but it's not that scary as people say it is. creepy but not scary, but I'm gonna test that on \"Akuma\" diff very soon.  and there is so many RE references here and I like that touch, indeed.","hours":51.6}
{"funny_percent":0.07407407407407407,"helpful_percent":0.9934289711445916,"review":"While this game doesn't provide much in terms of innovation, it's still a solid experience, with few noticeable flaws. None of the weapons are that interesting (besides the agony crossbow, but I'll get to that later), none of the upgrades stand out as interesting, and the main character has almost no personality. There are also some graphical issues, which I will get into more detail at the end. People who aren't confident with their PC specs should skip to the warning at the end.  To offset these flaws, however, the game provides excellent rewards for exploration and creativity, as well as some really cool storytelling. In terms of rewarding exploration, the game provides loot in nearly every nook and cranny. A couple of times I even thought that I was going out-of-bounds, only to find that I was actually taking an intended course to some upgrade points. For creative gameplay, the game provides multiple entry points to locations (though these become limited in later chapters) in the form of either entering a building through the door, a window if you think there's a trap, or even skipping the building altogether. The agony crossbow is also a huge gateway to creative gameplay: you can craft several different types of arrows, such as ice, electric, explosive (which can be used as traps), and flash. Whenever I found myself in a difficult situation, I always was able to pick some type of arrow to help me get through.  One of the most unexpected things the game allowed me to do was light enemies on fire. No, this is not to prevent them from reviving. Basically, whenever an enemy is stunned, dead, or playing dead, you can throw a match on them to engulf them in flames. The interesting part of this is that nearby enemies, living or dead, can catch fire and be instantly killed. What this means is that every dead or stunned enemy turns into a potential crowd-control weapon, which can obliterate a group of enemies. Sadly, I found this to be fairly unreliable, as the timing is awkward, the range is small, and it does not work for enemies that walk over the burning body; only for those already practically on top of it.  My basic experience of the game was that, in the beginning, I was having a ton of fun sneaking around and exploring. The game heavily focused on stealth, there were a lot of traps to avoid, and there were multiple houses to explore which yielded tons of loot. As the game progressed, however, chances for stealth became much more rare, with the game forcing waves of enemies instead, and villages with houses were replaced with corridors with a few extra small rooms. So it was a bit disappointing for me personally, though I imagine someone who prefers linear action games will prefer the second half of the game more.  That pretty much wraps up everything that I felt needed a long explanation, so I'll just make a list from here. pros: +Rewards for exploration. +Tons of journals, newspapers, etc. to collect and read. +Agony crossbow is a blast to use. +Game rewards playing \"smartly,\" such as taking things slowly, using traps to your advantage, and managing resources. +Boss designs look great, and have unique gameplay gimmicks. +Pretty cool story. +Fun new game+ rewards and achievements for gimmick playthroughs add replayability. +There's always enough of an ammo shortage to keep things tense, but never too little ammo. I think there may be an algorithm where ammo drops are more likely the less ammo you have. I wouldn't recommend this game to someone who struggles with aiming, though.  cons: -The upgrades are kind of dull. You'll never look through the list of upgrades and say \"wow, that looks awesome, I have to get it!\" -The \"normal\" enemies look boring. If you've never seen anything horror-related before, it might freak you out, but I don't think \"normal human with glowing eyes wrapped in barbed wire\" is a good design. -Enemy AI can be pretty dumb. They can struggle a bit with path-finding, and if they \"think\" you're sneaking nearby they won't do a good job of investigating. -They gave the enemies automatic rifles. Never give zombies modern weaponry in a horror game. Remember how everyone said the secret facility was the best part of Resident Evil 5? Me neither. -Limited graphical options. No option to reduce texture or mesh quality, and the game is prone to texture pop-in. As hinted in the first paragraph, rant on this coming up next.  Warning to people with weak PCs: This game is extremely prone to texture pop-in. Basically, whenever you look away from something, the texture will de-load, and if you back away from something a lower-quality texture will replace it. This isn't an uncommon practice; many open-world games, which need to limit load screens, use tactics like this so gameplay is uninterrupted. This is the first time I've seen this constant loading and de-loading in such a linear game, though. I suppose the benefits of this is that loading screens are shorter, and there's less of them. There may be less of a RAM usage impact, too. Many players, judging by the community hub, have had problems with textures popping in far too late due to this, which can ruin cutscenes and make gameplay awkward. To prevent this, I guess you'd need a drive with a fast read-time and a good GPU.  The game also includes the option for letterboxing. For those of you who don't know what letterboxing is, it basically is a method for making video output wider than the screen, by putting black bars on the top and bottom. This was often used on TV before widescreens became common, so that widescreen movies could be played on TVs with 4:3 aspect ratios. The letterboxing in this game has two effects: it changes the game to an ultra-widescreen view, and it greatly improves performance (less pixels rendered). Most people probably won't want their game to be letterboxed, however, as it can feel weird to have a blank space at the top and bottom of the screen. The reason I'm including this in the warning is that I believe the minimum and recommended specs assume players would leave letterboxing on. If you have a weak PC, you will likely be forced to keep letterboxing if you want a decent framerate. End of warning.  Overall, I'd say this game isn't perfect, but there's no real reason to avoid it, either. If you're craving survival horror, but you've already played the Resident Evil and Silent Hill series, you should give this a shot.  7/10, with optimism for the sequel.","hours":98.1}
{"funny_percent":0.08733624454148471,"helpful_percent":0.6522610950431926,"review":"The Evil Within: If you're looking for a game which is similar to the Residient Evil game series, you found one. The Evil Within, Tango Gamework's first game, and its an horror game :) This game is not for everyone, its full with flashing screens and alot of gore, ALOT of gore. Blood everywhere, nasty images, lots of zombies and so many creepy creatures you wish you wont meet even in your worst nightmares. A WELL MADE HORROR GAME!  Story: Im not gonna tell what this game is about, Im not gonna spoil you guys, all im gonna say its that the story behind this game its not what you thought it is... its very mysterious.. very DARK... a well made story.  Voice Acting: They really put alot of effort on this game voice acting, they made them very good and very suitable to the characters.  Sountracks: The soundtracks of this game are incredible!! The splashing blood sound and the weapon and everything you can think of its on this game, and its well made.  Gameplay: The movment system isn't that smooth, but as long you're a good shooter, you should be just fine. the hitbox its a bit messed up, but after you learn to control it, its ok. The stealth modes and action scences are briliant, having the option to choose how to kill the enemy - with a knife from behind, shot it to death or trick it with a trap, or just sneak away.  Graphics: It might sound sarcastic but this game is actually beautiful, even tho all the gore. But when you're in game you are just get amazed over and over again of the graphics of this game, they're awesome.  DLC'S: The Assignment + The Consequence: If you want to play one of these DLC´s, you better just get both of them to get fully the story of each one, after all The Consequence is the sequel of The Assignment. The idea of those DLC´s, which you play as Juli Kidman and you see the main game from her point of view its just huge. Its alot different of the main game, tho its also a very cool DLC that trust me you want to play!  The Executioner: Another side story the developers made, on this DLC you play as The Keeper, which shows his side of The Evil Within story. This DLC story is really sad and if you ask me it really made me start thinking twice before I judge a character on a game, or just any person in real life. This one doesn't have voice acting in it, and its on a first person view, which I find really cool, its also cheap and worth the price.","hours":34.4}
{"funny_percent":0.05,"helpful_percent":0.7185718426644303,"review":"Well finally played this game AND finished it... three damn years later...  Oh well, it is done now!  So what is The Evil Within?  STORY: To make it as bluntly as possible, it is a mix-bag of \"The Matrix, Inception, Ghost in The Shell\" EXCEPT with a huge horror setting. Telling you the story in detail would spoil pretty much the game but what I could say, your character (Detective Sebastian Castelanos) get's thrown into somekind of a wireless collective counsciousness experiment. He is \"fighting for his life\" into that strange F-ED up place while trying to make sense about all of it. You get thrown there from the many off-duty investigations your character have done pre-game. Investigations about your missing daughter and wife. And as the game progress, the people you trusted aren't what the seemed and vice versa for the untrustworthy foes!  GAMEPLAY: The Evil Within is very reminiscent of Resident Evil 4 and +. Controls are clunky at times and you do feel like Sebastian is moving underwater. For a detective, he can't run for long until you do upgrade his Stamina (VERY RECOMMENDED). The game is relatively easy when you set aside the few cheap deaths you can have at times (when you figure out what to do) and most oftenly, when a pre-rendered cutscene has stopped playing and gives you back control of Sebastian, you have like 2 seconds to do an action or you die. There are some puzzles to uncover for game progress and many collectibles which can add replayability if you do seek to maximize all of Sebastian's abilities. Game length is pretty decent for an horror game, especially if you do play all the DLC (which I do recommend very much).  VISUALS: Visuals are impressive at times while you do see many low resolution textures at places. The monsters are very well designed and almost reminds me of \"THE THING\" movie creatures at times.  SOUND: Sound design is serviceable. Nothing groundbreaking and nothing exceptionally bad. I did turned down the music as it was more counterproductive (and annoying) than anything else. Especially when stealth is mandatory in big portions of this game, you do have to focus your hearing for the foes!  RECOMMENDATION: All in all, I truly recommend this game for any horror fans and especially for Resident Evil fans. You will recognize Shinji Mikami's style in The Evil Within!  THE ASSIGNMENT DLC: Playing this story dlc as Juli Kidman, a rookie detective investigating the strange cases with Sebastian, you get some more info where she comes from and who she truly works for. You barelly fight in this DLC. This was an annoyance to me as Juli has pre-determined skill and abilities and she can't run more than 3 seconds. Two-hit and she's dead. This DLC orders you to play as stealthily as possible. Gameplay was disappointing for me but the other point of view from Juli was quite interesting and fairly long for a DLC, about 3 hours long.  THE CONSEQUENCES DLC: Picks up right after THE ASSIGNMENT DLC ends. About the same thing as TA, gameplay speaking. The story continues and ties up Sebastian's story right until the very end of TEW main game. You do get to fight a tad more but not enough to my liking. I just dislike the way the devs made Juli so weak and vulnerable compared to the \"Sebastian\" tank! DLC is about 2-3 hours long.  THE EXECUTIONNER DLC: Oh my oh my! This DLC is a glorious blood bath campaign! Story doesn't seemed tied much with TEW main game as you play... a test subject... inserted into that F-ED up counciousness world. And in this DLC, you play as one main villain, The Keeper (the enemy that has a big safe for its head). DLC played as First Person Mode, you battle against other monsters from that world. To my surprise, it is a very fun and 'JUICY' DLC! Lasts about 2 hours top.  OVERALL: I recommend The Evil Within with all the DLC!  ... and now, to The Evil Within 2 that just released and which is apparently WAY better than TEW1...","hours":32.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9995159047784081,"review":"I liked ✔ and Disliked ✗: (+) Story, dialogues, voice acting! ✔  (+) Design, atmosphere! ✔  (+) The main character. ✔ (Sebastian Castellanos)  (+) Replay-able. ✔ (At least one time.) (-) Checkpoint system, reply some un-skippable animation after die. ✗  (-) Cannot rise up the difficulty level in +New Game mod. ✗  Crashes / Bugs / Glitches: It worked well at me. Windows 10, 64bit. ✔   Personal Opinion: I mainly liked the story and the character dialogues. It’s a really well written story, it was really interesting for me as the story was formed, and the story twists. (Yes there is more!)  The game-play is good too. After the first walk-through, I liked to start again with +New Game mod, and listen again at the story, and upgrade more powerful weapons.   I recommend it to who likes: Story oriented games.  Well written stories, and good explained reasones.  Horror, scientific, and mystic mixed theme.  Achievements: The [You Asked For It] achievement aka, AKUMU difficulty was quite annoying. It means, one hit and you will die! :/  In +New Game you can’t rise up the difficulty, so you have to start from zero if you want the higher difficulty achievements. :/  The [Full House] achievement is buggy, it doesn’t guarantee to unlock. I accidentally managed to unlock it. → See here! ← ","hours":131.8}
{"funny_percent":0.05084745762711865,"helpful_percent":0.9595492734102111,"review":"The Evil Within... A Game I strictly don't wanted to start, because I'm a huge Pu$$y  I dont play Horror Games really much, because I don't like that Jumpscare aka. Five Nights at Freddys, nor do I like those insanely Loud noises just to \"scare\" someone. That's not my type of \"horror\". It's more like a pile of poop.  I picked up \"the Evil Within\" on sale through steam and it runs perfectly fine. I heard it was poorly optimized on release for pc but i think they fixed a lot of issues with it. Anyway, I love this game. The graphics, the combat and the atmosphere are top notch in my book. The survival aspect is also extremely well done. I was always low on ammo but never was hopelessly out. It still forced me to take my shots carefully because every single shot counted. I haven't had an experience like this for a while. I also like how each enemy is harder to kill than you would think and boss encounters are a mixture of shooting and lite puzzles.  My biggest and only Problem with the Game is that some areas / Bosses / Events, are really... stuP*D sometimes. Let me give you an example:  At one point in the Game you're in a huge... House. Ruvik (the bad guy ;D), sometimes instantly spawnes somewhere and is chasing you and you have to dodge him as long, as he disapears. Which means, that if he catches you, you are dead, instantly. Not a huge problem so far, but now, here comes the tricky part:  He can teleport. He can instantly teleport behind you and catch you like instant. Thats a HUGE bullsht. Sometimes you have to restart certain events multiple times, because you don't know what you have to do. some bosses are insanely du(m)b, and have attacks that insta kill you as well.  All in all the Game is worth it, because the game scared me ATLEAST 2 Times per half an hour. Love it!   *RECOMMENDED*","hours":17}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9617105005553748,"review":"Gameplay :  Another masterpiece by Lord Mikami san. Must play title for survival horror fans. Its like Resident Evil 4 with stealth and ammo management playing a bigger role. You keep your ammo in check, make right upgrades, pick your shots carefully and use the crossbow to your advantage. The bolt crafting and stealth movement is like The Last of Us. Crossbow is going to be your best friend as different bolts helps in different situations, for ex: use freeze bolt to freeze a group of enemies and using shotgun blast or melee to kill them all. You can also use them bolts as proximity mine, which covers your back while you clear the enemies in front. Shoot an enemy in the leg, it will cripple down, burn it quickly turn 180 and take down another one. Lure enemies into water, get out quickly and fire electric bolt in the water to take them down all.Trust me it helps a lot as the game throws you again and again in overwhelming situations.  Game also has a match mechanic where you need to burn enemies to make sure they are dead. So its either headshot or burning the corpses to be totally sure that enemies dont get back up but tbh powerful blows also kills enemies permanently. The match mechanic was under utilized. It helps to conserve ammo as with right timing you could take down 3-4 enemies together. The levels are designed well with enviornmental traps for you to utilize and get rekt so be careful, giving room to enemy to ambush you and encircle you. The level and encounter variety is one of the strengths of evil within. There are full blown action levels like RE4 and god they are amazing, the regular encounters are combination of more uneasy, stealth and action approach. The encounters are clevery designed and are not hand holding at all. The gameplay is ace and when the man behind the title is Shinji Mikami then you can trust him eyes closed. Such a fantastic record of games and that too in diverse gameplay titles.  The atmosphere in this game downright creepy and bloody amazing. Full marks in this regard, mansion, fog, creepy trees, various horror paintings, narrow corridors, dim candles, bodies rotting, mannequins out of no where, blood filled rooms & walls, clock ticking in asylum, etc make this game horror fans dream come true. The city level is little bit underwhleming in this regard but other that each area is mind ♥♥♥♥ery awesome. Mansion level is god tier in enviornment department. Your safe heaven aka the asylum gives you clues about the story and it has the unsettling yet being safe feeling. You would want to know who the nurse is and what is happening here. You can also upgrade your character, weapons, skills etc here, the regular drill. But the green gel is scarce so put points thoughtfully.   The enemies and bosses are fun to fight with some of them will make you♥♥♥♥♥♥in your pants. In later levels they wear a mask so no more instant headshots, they will dodge your aim, etc. The bosses are well done and they have interesting story behind them. You'll love laura and love that fight. That♥♥♥♥♥♥was tense. The design of bosses is creepy and they are stressful to fight with. When you'll fight keeper for the first time your heart will be in your mouth, almost guaranteed. Second time when you know what to do, it'll be easy. Hard mode has few changes in enemy placements and provide fresh and more challenging experience.  Sound design in this game is great, weapons packing punch, growl of enemies, footsteps of invisible enemies, creak of wooden planks, clock ticking, etc. and that awesome save room music and end credits song.  Story is told in indirect way because of games ♥♥♥♥ed up and mysterious premises. It is interesting and you'll guessing that what the ♥♥♥♥ is happening and when it all comes together it is worth it. I too read it on reddit to fully understand what was happening. They could have done a better job of telling it.  The weapons are amazing to use and have the heavy feel. You get pistal, revolver, shotgun, rifle and your crossbow. The headshots are glorious and fun to land. In this game well placed headshot is also necessary as somethimes a part of head will chip off and enemies still charge towards you and that♥♥♥♥♥♥is crazy.   Special mention of chapter 9 & 10, they are one of the best chapters in a video game ever. They even surpass some of re4's chapters and yes they are that good. Grade A+ stuff right there. These two chapters are really long and will punch you in the face again and again. Also chapter 3 is where this game starts as first two levels are total stealth and teach you the basic mechanics.  The game is challenging, awesome and there is a zero reason to not to play this if you are survival horror fan. One of my all time fav. games and one of the most underrated games out there. The game recieved lot of heat because of technical issues like crap fps, black bars, poor perforamance on consoles, etc. I believe pc version is fixed now with higher frame rate and no black bars. When you finish the game do check out sweet dreams evil within music video on youtube. Very well done and shows the beauty of this game.  9.5/10","hours":49.1}
{"funny_percent":0.29411764705882354,"helpful_percent":0.8362620585281585,"review":"It's like Resident Evil and Silent Hill had a baby and raised it to take over the family business.","hours":33.8}
{"funny_percent":0.25,"helpful_percent":0.7062801529282232,"review":"The game was good. Gameplay was akin to RE4, nice to choose upgrades to your playstyle, and the story was decent.   But holy moly, I hate Leslie. What an awful character. The voice actor was garbage, his behaviour boiled my blood, and Jesus Christ wear some shoes. He almost ruined the game for me. I hope I never have to see him again.","hours":14.8}
{"funny_percent":0.019230769230769232,"helpful_percent":0.9066016657444268,"review":"The Evil Within is: An Action Oriented Survival Horror. An Horror game with a lot of plot holes or plot mysteries. Mostly based on Resident Evil with some homages to other games. Centered in Gore Horror rather than Psychological horror. Stereotypical Cop Survival Game. Plot driven instead of Character driven. Pretentious. Nice but not Awesome. A game with obvious puzzles. A game that will certainly become a franchise.  The Evil within is not: A Stealth Survival Horror game. A game with a very coherent plot. A game with deep character development A masterpiece of the genre. An original story, A very scary and disturbing game.  To summarize my experience with this game: I should advise that this is not a game for a mature audience. I think it is game for teenagers and not adults. Fans of Siren, Silent Hill, Clock Tower and other stealth horror games should probably avoid this one. First Person lovers should avoid it also. Most of the puzzles are way to obvious and you don´t even need to look for clues to solve them. Ammo is not a problem. You can run with a certain type but you will always have some, even on hard difficulties. Unfortunately you have no option to chose a less blunt and dull character in the first run and you are stuck with the stereotypical cop. That kind that acts-first and thinks-after with a very obvious backstory. The DLC's are not a big deal so buy only when its cheap. The game is enjoyable and I could recommend simply because it might be a fun time for people, but you should check some gameplay on youtube preferably without commentary, because most youtubers will praise the game too much almost looking like they are merchandising it (and they probably are). This game will not make your jaws drop, cry or scream about anything, but it has some enjoyable things and nice graphics. Don't buy the Season Pass, you will pay for new DLC's that will not come at all. Bathesda did not announce The Evil Within 2 in its conference and I have reasons to believe that they will touch it for some time. Buy when its cheap so you won't regret if it sucks for you. I hope this helps people making a good purchasing choice.","hours":70.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6681991732288786,"review":"A truly stellar and criminally underrated Survival Horror masterpiece. Feels like a true spiritual successor to Resident Evil 4, carrying on the classic survival horror and Resident Evil staples with more modern gameplay design.  The story follows detective Sebastian Castellanos and his team. They get called to investigate a mass murder at Beacon mental hospital. What starts off as a rather routine crime scene investigation quickly turns into something more sinister, as all semblance of logic disappears and reality starts to literally break apart around them. The 15-20 hour long campaign will have you falling down a seemingly endless nightmarish rabbit hole, as you try to piece together exactly where you are and why. A special mention to the antagonist of the game, who manages to be one of the most interesting horror villains I've seen in a while.  Level and game design is a rather devisive topic with this game. It is fair to criticize the levels due to how they don't exactly flow into one another, leaving the impression that setpieces were made and then the rest of the game was added in to connect them. That said, the design also makes sense and very much makes you feel like you are in a nightmare with no concrete sense of progression or way out. That is one of the most fascinating aspects of the world of The Evil Within. As mentioned, the game carries on elements of classic survival horror with modern gameplay. It manages to create one of the most dangerous and deadly environments in a video game and not through old methods, such as fixed camera angles and tank controls, but rather by keeping the environment progression chaotic, leaving the player constantly guessing what's next. The environment is also littered with deadly traps and enemies, advising a much more cautious approach. A rushed playthrough will turn into a very frustrating one.  Gameplay feels very much built on the groundwork laid by RE4. It's third person survival horror, though unlike RE4, you can aim and move at the same time. The inventory seems to be kind of a half and half between RE4 and RE5, not exactly pausing the game, but slowing it down enough for you to be able to switch weapons and craft ammunition. The movement also feels a bit more sluggish than your normal third person shooter, though this may be to compensate for being able to aim and move. Weapon variety is rather standard with the exception of the Agony Crossbow. Each weapon carries different ammunition, which is distributed just enough so that you can make it through most fights with careful aiming and planning. The Agony crossbow and matches demonstrate a unique flexibility in the combat. As most enemies are vulnerable to fire, players can find creative and ammo efficient ways of killing them with just a match, such as shooting an enemy in the leg and lighting them on fire, while they are down.  As for the PC port, it seemed to have a very rocky launch, but seems to be quite good as of now, with some slight annoyances. Despite being able to switch off the letterboxes, they still appear occasionally in scenes, making transitions from cutscene to gameplay a bit more jarring than it needs to be. The 30 fps cap has also been lifted, though the game is now capped to 60. The game itself looks fantastic, despite being over 2 years old. Environment and enemy design is very well done, bringing to life some truly horrific locations and creatures. The gore effects are also very well done, featuring some of the most satisfying headshots I have experienced in a game.  Overall, while it may have some setbacks on a technical standpoint, it's a truly amazing return to form for third person survival horror games. With an amazingly paced lengthy campaign, multiple difficulty settings, ng+ as well as 3 DLCs with different gameplay elements, it's very easy to recommend. If you love RE4 and RE5 left you a bit cold, or if you just want a third person survival horror game with interesting level design and a very compelling villain, this game should be right up your alley.","hours":85.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8154551789482842,"review":"I can only recommend this game.  Lots of guns and enemies to have fun with!  DLC that will fill gaps in the story and one where you can have brutal fun.  Characters are fine but kinda stupid sometimes.  Akumu difficulty! Thats the real fun! I died only 516 times on Akumu. Can you beat me? ;)  Enjoy it!","hours":75.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6937084249587159,"review":"From the Father Of Survival horror \" Shinji Mikami \", A great survival horror game from Tango Gameworks.   Spooky environment with scary creatures and bosses, this one frustrated me with lots of death and less amount of ammunation. Story was so much confusing and saggy that you need to play 3 other DLC for understand. Various Weapons with crafting and upgrading skills made this one more fun. AGONY Bolts was my most favoirte weapon in this game. With three DLC this game is worth on sale.  Pros:  1. Spooky World. 2. Variety Of Weapons. 3. Crafting Items. 4. Satisfying Bosses. 5. Lots Of Jumpscares. 6. Fun DLC's.  Cons:  1. Saggy Story. 2. Boring Protagonist.  8.5/10.","hours":55.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6126652796832132,"review":"I was surprised over how good this game turned out to be, It felt pretty rewarding going through new game+ just like in RE4 and some technical issues aside, I had a lot of fun playing through the base game and especially its two story DLCs.  Without the two DLCs to flesh out the story and TEW's world it would be a bit lower in my books (7.5/10) but here's the final assessment.   The Evil Within: 8.5/10 (If the pacing was a bit better It'd be rated higher) The Assignment: 9.0/10 The Consequence: 9.5/10 The Executioner: 6.5/10 (Mindless fun filler DLC.)  Give me The Evil Within 2!","hours":58.2}
{"funny_percent":0.058823529411764705,"helpful_percent":0.8549251721548149,"review":"I hated how everyone compared this game to being a worse Resident Evil 4 cause honestly I heavily enjoyed it for what it was. The only complaint I have is that it overstayed its welcome by 2-3 hours. Toward the end of the game it just seemed to drag on, but other than that this game was awesome.","hours":21.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6017617981198085,"review":"My favorite game of 2014 and one of the best Survival/Action Horror games I've ever played! It's also a VERY contentious game, with people either loving it like myself or hating it like it's the plague. This makes it a tough game to recommend in the senes that I can cite games that I love: Resident Evil 4 and Dead Space for example. I can say, \"if you like either or both of those games you will also likely love this game too!\". The problem is that many of the people that hate this game will also cite those games and how Evil Within fails to live up to them. Instead I will try to list elements that I loved.  Pros: -The game does not suffer fools gladly and it does not hold your hand. You learn by your mistakes, potentially dying over and over in a single location. -Supplies are often very limited, and in my first playthrough it was common to have enough ammo that I could count it on a single hand. -The story requires the player to pay close attention to figure out. It reminds me a bit of Lost in the sense the forums were flooded with fan theories and ideas. I also found the characters to be fairly likable. Sebastien is a bit of a blank slate but I actually like when the protagonist allows you to project a bit of yourself on them. This especially helps in a horror title to draw you in. -The game has a great sense of tension. I found it to be a scarier/tenser experience than Resident Evil 4, but found it less scary than Dead Space. -Wonderful gore. Perhaps a bit of a childish thing to point out, but this IS a horror title. I've never seen such glorious headshots in a game. Like hitting a ripe melon with a sledgehammer.  Negatives: -At release the game had massive borders on the top and bottom, the framerate was locked at 30 FPS and the game had some severe performance issues. All of these issues were patched, but it gave a very bad first impression as a sloppy console port. -The game can, at times, simply be janky. An example was when I was standing on one side of a fence. I took a melee swing at an enemy and my arm passed through his body. The enemy then swung at me and hit me through the fence. Either allow both of us to swing through the fence, game, or neither of us! -The game has some RPG like mechanics for shooting. I actually don't mind this. If you've played Deus Ex or Alpha Protocol you know what I'm talking about. You can aim at an enemy, dead on and still miss. Not because of a glitch, but because until you rank up certain skills your character will be a terrible shot. This heightens the tension and encourages you to get up close and personal to nullify your poor accuracy but it may also enrage gamers who are more used to playing standard third or first person shooters where you can actually hit what you are aiming at from the very start. -The early game is pretty slow and linear. It doesn't really pick up until chapter 3. Again, this gives poor first impressions.  As you can see, some of those negatives may be huge turn-offs... but I found the game absolutely thrilling and intriguing... a flawed gem. Try the demo out to see how it runs on your computer, maybe watch some youtube reviews and give the game a chance!","hours":204.3}
{"funny_percent":0.1935483870967742,"helpful_percent":0.8877336813716157,"review":"Teal Deer Developers: Tango Gameworks Publishers: Bethesda Softworks  Initial release: Oct 2014 Genre: Horror, Action, TPS #Worth/NotWorth: #Worth Exposition, Concurrence and Summation The Evil Within is a highly cinematic third person action/horror game. It does a great job at making you feel as though you've already played it. Just give me a moment. It feels like every game you have ever played. It's Resident Evil, it's Eternal Darkness, it's Bioshock, it's Dead Space, it's F.E.A.R. and Saw simultaneously. This is not an inherently BAD thing or ideology for game development studios to adopt. It just lacks, for want of a better term, valor.   The Evil Within is fun, it's nerve racking it's... familiar; and it has all the bells and whistles of a modern “triple A” title. I enjoyed my time, I honestly like the game but there is something missing which leads me into this next bit.  I'm about to rant  So ignore this next section if that's not your jam  I understand that the video game industry is new and budding, at least comparatively to other forms of media; and I hate this mentality of big budget games having to be these cookie cutter pristine must follow each bullet point to the T sort of endeavors. I realize however that precisely because these big budget titles are so costly and take so much time that it is near impossible for proper business practice to try something completely off the wall.   Which is why we see the rise of the indie developer; between free engines, a programmer, writer and an artist can (CAN is important) build worlds, write stories that stick with you. Things that make you think afterward. Things that make you wonder about things in a way you didn't before. Most triple A games today are fun, they work, they give you a nice good happy fun time. But for me; these experiences are fleeting. As with going out to the theater, you've spent a lot more time and money than it took to watch at home and yet what you end up taking away from the experience of seeing the film is more likely; who you saw at the theater, how the traffic was and why was that person laughing so loud.   What I mean to say is nothing new is emerging for triple A games. They have become this amorphous cloud of I already know what this is but I'm going to do it anyways and pretend its new sentiment.   Anyways back on point.   *ends rant*  The Evil Within is a very enjoyable game. You collect green gel, which I lovingly referred to as brain juice the entire game, which can be spent at a very ominous chair reminiscent of the early days of studying mental health.   The game is broken into chapters. And there is a recurring theme with looking into a mirror with what I can only describe is a very eerie and ironic song that through playing the game you'll come to find solace in as it transports you to a land where you can save, upgrade and unlock any special lockers with keys you can find hidden throughout the game. Be it, often at the expense of experiencing a psychotic episode. You also get this very rad crossbow that you can construct different types of ammo for such as trap bolts, freeze bolts and some regular♥♥♥♥♥exploding bolts.    YouTube™ Video: Analog Reviews: The Evil Within  Views: 7,307 Josh has survived the madness and brings you his review of The Evil Within Reviewed by: Josh Please like and subscribe for more reviews, gameplay, and discussions!   THE GIST All in all, this game is exactly what you think it is and that's not a bad thing. You get to shoot, burn, explode, eviscerate, punch and claw your way through zombie hordes (or maybe not zombies?) and places designed to make your skin crawl. You just might not remember anything specific about what you did after it's all over.  Follow my curation for more","hours":14.8}
{"funny_percent":0.06666666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.6637503174047336,"review":"Some of my favorite youtubers have cast a rather negative shadow on this game. Personally, I like it. It reminded me of Resident Evil four with its third person action-oriented gameply coupled with its survival/horror puzzle solving elements. I will admit that I was a little annoyed with all the one hit kill cliches that the player would have no idea how to avoid on their first playtrhough. If you can get passed that however, the game is pretty solid. It controls well, the characters are interesting, the dialogue is believable, and there exists a scarcity of ammo and resources that provide a decent survival/horror experience. I'm currently in the middle of my second playthrough, and I'm enjoying the hell out of it now that I know how to play and what to expect. I'm looking forward to the sequal being relesed in October.","hours":68.8}
{"funny_percent":0.030303030303030304,"helpful_percent":0.6139341400342572,"review":"Quite possibly my favourite survival horror game ever. Sure it's buggy in places and the story has some weird moments, but it overall holds together really well. It's not Resident Evil, despite the creator of Resident Evil spearheading the production. This is something I wish more people would realise, instead of criticizing it for how non-Resident Evil it is.  I absolutely love the ID Tech 5 engine. The graphics in The Evil Within are among some of the strongest I've ever seen. The whole game is dripping in atmosphere and I felt completely immersed. It's also incredibly violent, and Tango Gameworks have gone to a lot of trouble to provide a AAA experience. They really captured the essence of horror and anyone who thinks otherwise clearly hasn't seen enough oldschool scary movies.   It's also quite a long game. Took me 12 hours to beat the main story and there's New Game+ and a couple other interesting modes to complete. There's definitely a lot of replay value to unlock all of the hidden secrets/collectibles.   I'd definitely recommend getting The Evil Within if you're a fan of horror in general. It's a challenging game, but very easy to become immersed in. Most importantly, it's fun and quite creepy. Definitely worth playing.","hours":53.3}
{"funny_percent":0.18181818181818182,"helpful_percent":0.9475190640184702,"review":"I remember when this game first came out.  Way back when my PS4 was still new and exciting. I bought it back then based on the hype and that it would be the scariest game ever. It had its moments of suspense and a decent number of jump and non jump scares.. but with the the forced tunnel vision and ♥♥♥♥♥♥ POV on the console (thank god its not this way on pc) the game was more exhausting than fun. My first playthrough left me not wanting to play games at all for a while.   The good: the soundtrack, level design, the voice acting is somewhat comical, resident evil mansion makes a comeback, torching dead bodies, interesting enemies.  the bad: exhausting amount of running around/ stealth crouching and attempting to look around corners, shi t point of view, sebastien shoots guns like a little girl and has no aim, he swings punches like a biotch too. low frames per second even on pc.  the ugly: invisible enemies. wtf. the dlc isnt really that interesting.  but all in all its a great game worth playing for the first few chapters anyway, the story will cause serious mindfuxing... you will literally hate that kid leslie that youre following by the 3rd or 4th time you see him you will literally be 'losing your mind..losing your mind, losing your mind losing your mind'  7/10","hours":7.3}
{"funny_percent":0.03563941299790356,"helpful_percent":0.6518040506210795,"review":"Before the actual review. The devs finally added framerate cap and letterboxing options. Enabling console doesn't prevent you from getting achievements anymore. While these options should've been there from the beginning it's nice to see that these issues have been addressed.  Actual review. I'll keep it semi-short, I don't want it to be bloated. Story spoiler-free.  Short introductions. The Evil Within (TEW) is an oldschool survivor horror game with semi-tanky controls. If you'd ask me which games does TEW remind me of then I'd say Silent Hill, Resident Evil 4, Outlast and Alone in the Dark. If you ever played any Silent Hill title then you'll notice the familiar dirty, rust and blood covered dilapidated locations, scary mental hospital with beds and wheelchairs all over the place. The game is medium paced, which is good and bad at the same time. It's good because it doesn't get boring. it's bad because it decreases the horror factor. Puzzles are there, but really scarce and simple.  The visuals. The game has some really nice lighting, reflections, shaders, particles, post processing effects and dynamic shadows. Depth of field and film grain make a really good combo here and add a lot to the experience. The locations are well made, a lot of attention to the detail, even though there are some cheap visual solutions (like 2D rock textures on water). The polygon count on most of the objects is medium, texture quality is mediocre at best. The worst textures I've noticed were the beginning (the city) and mostly rubble, no notable HD textures. City destruction is nicely looking, but is entirely scripted. Most of the animations are smooth, jerky ones have been fixed in the first patch.  The enemy types. This contains some partial spoilers. Throughout the game you'll be greeted with different types of zombies (Haunted) and their sub-mutations. Just like in Resident Evil 4 you stumble upon angry villagers. Some of them will attack you with bare hands, some of them use torches, knives, hammers, sickles, molotovs and even crossbow, guns and sniper rifles. Notable mutations: invisible zombies (barely visible, fully visible on hit), two headed monsters with a surprise (AlterEgo). There are also mini-bosses and actual bosses.  The combat, mechanics and AI. Many people mentioned that it's like RE4 on steroids. Semi-tanky controls, you can't dodge or counter. If you get hit you're usually given time to recover and fall back. Unless it's an instakill attack. Oh yes, there are plenty of enemies in this game that can instantly kill you. But unlike in RE4 you can actually move while you aim and now you have the option to use stealth.  You can sprint (uses stamina), run and duckwalk. You can't shoot while you're duckwalking as it's meant for stealth kills (you sneak up behind enemies) and trap disarms. There are two types of traps: hidden ones that can be simply disarmed by holding the button (bear traps, string triggered dynamite, etc) and more obvious, but dangerous sticky bombs. You disarm them by pressing the button at the right time, otherwise it explodes. Each trap gives you crafting material. Check weapons sections for more about that. If you accidentally activate a trap then you can expect: small to high health loss or instant death.  The game has RPG elements. Throughout the game you'll find green gel (that is used to upgrade various physical abilities and even weapon effects), ammo, materials, collectibles and matches. There's health regeneration. If your health drops below ~20HP then you'll be unable to sprint, but you're able to recover it back just by standing. Your melee consists of slapping and kicking enemies. Useful for finishing off or pushing away zombie type enemies, but generally not recommended for more serious enemies. Stamina bar enables you to sprint. The default sprint time is around 3 seconds and when stamina is below 30% you slow down to usual speed. If it reaches 0 then you stop completely and catch your breath (completely vulnerable). You can upgrade your ammo capacity and weapon efficiency (damage, fire rate, reload times, accuracy, clip size, etc).  Stealth is a nice addition (works only on Haunted). You sneak behind the enemies and instantly kill them. This works in following scenarios: a) the enemy is standing in one place; b) the enemy is patrolling back and forth. You have a lantern which is your own source of light. It really helps to see where are you going, makes you clearly see the traps but also gives away your position to the enemies. Making loud noises (slam open a door) also can catch enemy attention. Knowing that you can use glass bottles to either distract them or stun them by throwing the bottle against their head (after that you're given time to stealth kill them). Stealth killing is a nice way to conserve ammo and if you have the chance to do so - go for it. If you get spotted then you can deal with them the usual way.  Enemy attack patterns are worth a mention. Most simple ones are punches (or swings with the weapons), kicks and dash attacks. Dash attacks of melee zombies are quite dangerous as they go into berserk mode and try to hit at least 3 times. Crossbow/gun enemies usually take time to aim at you and then shoot. Sniper rifle enemies hide behind cover and then take their time to shoot at you. Shooting a zombie in the knee usually makes them fall. All of the enemies are weak against fire. if you have matches then you can burn corpses (REmake style), hay or even downed still alive enemies (hence shooting in the knee). Igniting something will set on fire all nearby enemies. You'll stumble upon plenty of corpses throughout the game, some of them can be used to ignite other enemies. Some of them can become alive depending on your actions (so it may be wise to burn some before you pick up an item or activate a mechanism).  The enemy AI is also mediocre and could've been better. As soon as they spot you they'll start moving or running towards you. Detection sometimes fails and they spot you when you're behind them, crouching. Sometimes they might get stuck, run in circles or simply charge at you and end up running against the wall. I've also seen some weird patrol patterns. Like I mentioned before loud noises alert them (be it doors or you stepping in a trap). To avoid direct confrontation you can either hide in closets or below beds and tables or use the traps against them. Most notable con is the big amount of enemy invulnerability frames (you shoot, but they don't react / take no damage).  In some chapters you'll stumble upon your partner. Shouldn't be too problematic as you can heal your partner by just standing next to 'im and holding a button. No need to share your ammo either.  Weapons. Semi-traditional Resident Evil layout. Handgun (revolver), shotgun, crossbow (with different bolts), sniper rifle, magnum, rocket launcher. Most are upgradable, crossbow is worth a special mention. You find different bolt types for it, after that you can craft them from materials gathered from the levels and traps. Bolt types: harpoon, proximity explosives, flashbang, electric shock, freeze and DLC ones. Useful in combination with other weapons.  Due to character limit I'll have to wrap it up aka tl;dr version. TEW offers a nice oldschool survivor horror experience, the locations and atmosphere are nice, but it's far from perfect either. Some chapters are more action centered and the game becomes zombie slaying action game (like Resident Evil 4 Chapter 5 island parts). I don't think that arena style battles (especially against enemies with weapons) was a good idea either. There are cheap deaths, especially in escape sequences, but in the end even with all its flaws I would recommend the game as it's entertaining and fun to play.  I couldn't fit in the full review, so ask me questions in the comments.","hours":95.3}
{"funny_percent":0.03125,"helpful_percent":0.8111948604601533,"review":"I beat this game twice on the PS4, and am going for my third playthrough on PC, and I don't replay bad games. The Evil Within isn't a masterpiece like Resident Evil 4, but it's an extremely solid survival horror game in it's own right. The plot is a tad convoluted, the dialogue is neither here nor there, and the character movement is a bit on the stiff side, but the atmosphere, sound design, weapon variety, character progression and solid gunplay are enough to set The Evil Within apart. In my opinion, this is what a real survival horror game should be. TEW focuses on gameplay and atmosphere first, doesn't rely on jumpscares and isn't afraid to splatter the screen with all sorts of blood and guts, not surprising coming from famed game director Shinji Mikami. If you're a fan of Resident Evil 4, the Dead Space franchise and Mikami's previous work, I'd say The Evil Within is a no brainer.  PC Port (6700k l GTX 970 l 16GB DDR4): I can't get the game to run at a solid 60fps, but that's not at all surprising, seeing as how this is an idTech 5 game. And when I used Nvidia's DSR, the game zoomed in and refused go back to the original aspect ratio. That being said, the PC version looks and runs a LOT better than the PS4 version, which can go as low as 18 fps during certain sequences. You can now remove the Letterbox format if you wish and if by some miracle of god you can get this game running at a locked 60fps, you can also remove the 30fps cap. Overall, it's not a brilliant port by any means, but it gets the job done if you have the hardware to run it.","hours":52.2}
{"funny_percent":0.08333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.6489647979717289,"review":"The sequel is coming out so I thought I would update my review. This game is super divisive. You either love it or hate it from what I gather, but for the life of me i have no idea why. What everyone was expecting was a follow-up to Resident Evil 4 and that is exactly what we got. Yeah this game was little (lot) more linear, but the gameplay was almost beat for beat exactly the same. Limited ammo, lots of fun guns, a level which takes place outside a castle, lots of gross gory slimy enemies, a level that takes place in a village full of gross angry stabby villagers, and lots of other stuff. The only thing that was missing from RE4 in this game was the inventory management and I honestly don't think it would have worked in this. As for the people complaining that this game isn't scary, shut up. Of course it isn't, it's a followup to RE4. RE4 is one of the goofiest games ever. Leon was a goofy sarcastic ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ who would roudhouse and suplex all the slimy zombie guys, all while keeping his hair perfectly permed. Sebastian is not as memorable as Leon, but the story inherets Leon's goofiness and uses it to create some of the most rediculously awesome setpieces in gaming.   I like this game. I like it a lot.  It's ok if you don't like it, I don't like lots of things.  But is this game a 68 on metacritic? No.  This game is at least a solid 80, I would probably give it more.  I like it more than RE4.  I'm sorry.","hours":23.1}
{"funny_percent":0.25,"helpful_percent":0.8920400426653037,"review":"75% of the time searching for goo.  15% of the time figuring out what the actual ♥♥♥♥ is going on. 10% of the time running away from the stupid black haired chick who wont DIE.   It's a long game, but felt a bit repetitive and linear at some points.  Would recommend if you like blood and gore mingled with jump scares. Wouldn't recommend if you want something atmospheric and story-driven as I still have no idea what the point anything in the game was.  Bonus: Pro af crossbow.","hours":19.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7927182019431199,"review":"8/10 -Disturbing. I love the over the top gore it has. It is so satisfying shooting a gun in this game. The story starts out slow but builds up and keeps you confused on what's going on until the very end. This game is not really pop out scary but it's a stressful kind of scary in the sense of surviving. You can set up and disarm traps, upgrade weapons, sneak around stealth killing, hide and even craft bolts for your bow. You can stun, explode, start on fire, freeze and shatter people into bits. The game rewards you for exploring and it really pays off. I did alot of exploring in fact where it made me OCD looking left and right finding jars for upgrades, keys for unlocking stuff, disarming traps to craft with, ammo and health for survival. If you don't explore it will be a very hard game to beat. It doesn't hold your hand at all. You go to a boss fight empty handed you will be sorry. It's a really long game but you don't feel like it's too long since you will be upgrading and getting new weapons as well as seeing how the story unfolds. The mouse and keyboard controls are spot on. This game is a must have for any survival horror fan.","hours":26}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8336009101771799,"review":"I've finished the game on Survival (normal difficulty) after 29 hours. Here are my thoughts:  Difficulty: The game's difficulty is average to difficult, but never unfair (the game gives you enough resources and messing up does not mean you'll have to restart from an earlier save). Graphics: playing this on Ultra, I was impressed and took many pictures of some really nice things I saw in the game. The game has many high points, with very nice light and dark scenes. The only con is the \"cut and paste\" of some models, which break the immersion. Sound: I've played many of this game's quieter moments with my earphone, and I was really impressed. Amazing sound design, which makes you feel like you are playing a horror movie in the game's more stealth-oriented sections. Gameplay: RE4 with some limitations, so you cannot fight like a soldier. You can use melee, but it is not effective for killing the enemies. You get some upgrades that, when used well, really make the difference, but running and using the environment is the key to survival, as the enemies are a lot more aggressive than in other games of the genre. Story: Not too original, you'll feel like you are riding in a nightmare, but the pieces will make sense in time, especially if you play the DLC (I'm still playing the second DLC, but I can tell they really add meaning to the story). Some complaints: copied assets (as mentioned above), dying fast because of powerful enemies, action sequences are a bit overused so you lose a bit the horror vibe to get a more action-oriented feeling. Overall: 10/10, Essential game in any true gamer's library, especially if you enjoy survival horror games!","hours":44.1}
{"funny_percent":2.4775280898876404,"helpful_percent":0.9719666943053855,"review":"Sebastian can only carry 12 rounds for his revolver because his jeans are that tight.  10/10 Fashion over practicality","hours":10.8}
{"funny_percent":0.2,"helpful_percent":0.6811408099193335,"review":"Horrible FOV and can not be changed legitimately.","hours":4.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7451582354649385,"review":"I just picked up the PC version of The Evil Within and it is still a great game. I should let you know I have over 100+ hours in this game on the PS4 version, and got all the achievements in the game twice on separate accounts. I love this game.  The PC version seems to have more technical issues than the PS4 version, such as small graphical bugs and stuttering at times. The increased framerate at 60fps dramatically improves the game though and makes the game more smooth and responsive. The game looks similar to the PS4 version, and I recommend getting a graphics mod to have the game look its best.  Now into the gameplay. This is honestly one of the most satisfying games you can play. It's mainly a stealth game and you should conserve ammo whenever possible. The great thing about the game is that even though it's linear, each level is big enough to explore and you can find collectibles, extra ammo and gear, and green gel to aid you in surviving the nightmare. Green gel is basically the currency for a very thoughtful and well executed upgrade system. You can upgrade weapons, your crossbow bolts, how much ammo you can carry, and main character attributes like sprinting stamina and how much health you have. I could go into more detail, but my point is it is a very good and rewarding system. There is also a very neat system where you can burn bodies. Once you shoot a zombie, they won't stay dead. You either have to pop their heads off with a bullet, or stagger them and light them on fire otherwise they get back up and fight until the bitter end. There is also traps. It adds a lot more depth to the gameplay, as you can either use traps to lure zombies to death, or take them a apart and use them to craft very useful crossbow bolts. These arrows significantly help you in combat, as they serve many purposes. You can freeze, stun, burn, harpoon, and explode the zombies into bits. It's an addictive gameplay. The AI in the game is also top-notch. Difficult and unforgiving, they will actually work together to kill you. Honestly, the only flaw with the gameplay is sometimes Sebastian doesn't go where you want him to, or the camera angle is in a strange position, but it doesn't happen very often.  Gameplay 9.5/10  The story is actually good, but executed so poorly in the game with it's cringe worthy cutscenes and writing. I have never seen such boring, undeveloped characters in my life. Sebastian will keep saying, \"What the hell is going on here?\" \"I must be losing it\" to the point of comedy. If you watch youtube videos or read the wiki on the game, there is an intriguing story behind the mess that was shown in the game.  Story 7/10  The game isn't scary, but it sure as hell is creepy. The Evil Within has some of the creepiest and atmospheric environments in a horror game to date. There is an amazing use of lighting and sound that will give you a sense of insecurity. The way the story is told, you will be visiting many memorable locations and bosses that are top-notch. The enemies are also very well designed. You will encounter masked humans that look like the are ready to go out on Purge night, to squid-like enemies that turn can invisible, The threat is even greater on AKUMU difficulty, where you die in one hit from anything that touches you. There are more enemies, more traps, and less ammo.   Environment/enemies: 9.5/10  SHORT CONCLUSION:  I could go on talking about this game and make the review way longer and in depth. Despite the many flaws, the total experience is a masterpiece and my GOTY game of 2014. The games pacing is excellent, and the level diversity is great. That along with the smart AI and addictive gameplay loop and mechanics, it is definitely a game worth picking up, Even though the story was lacking and the writing and cutscenes were cringe-worthy, the excellent gameplay and level/sound design saved this game.   9/10  If you have any questions about the game, leave a comment :)","hours":17.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.883153041797953,"review":"Excellent Concept, Brilliant Execution, Genuine Spooks  Story  Right from the start to the very end, I was hooked on the story. While to most people it seems like a simple plot which is a fair point, but what is presented here is a story crafted with care – a story written with some sign of intelligence behind it.   “b-but I don’t find the story that smart at all! It’s cliché and boring!” - if that’s how you feel then that’s great, but just in case you haven’t, take some time to listen/read some of the collectables you find around the game. Hopefully you’ll come to realise it’s more than just a common ‘spooky game’ story. Linking the information found in the collectables around the game to the main story is quite interesting and adds the sense that you’re filling in the missing pieces. You wouldn’t understand the entire story or it’s background without the information that the collectables give you or the set up for the sequel.  DLC  Touching lightly on the DLC, I haven’t played it myself as I watched a playthrough on YouTube but I would say it is important for the story and to understand where you’re coming from in the next game. Definitely either play it or watch it.  Gameplay  If you have ever played Resident Evil 4 and enjoyed it, then I feel you will enjoy the gameplay of The Evil Within. While they aren’t exactly synonymous with each other, they share similarities in style through movement, interaction, shooting (despite 4’s stand still style), etc.  The Evil Within even has some stealth mechanics which are more useful and can be used more often than you initially think. That being said, the stealth isn’t perfect but that’s to be forgive since it isn’t a primarily stealth focused game in the first place. The Weapons are fairly normal with the exception of the ‘Agony Crossbow’. With its various arrow types, this weapon sure does save lives... especially in AKUMU mode which is its own form of agony.  AKUMU Mode is a unlockable difficulty when players complete the game for the first time… basically this mode kills you in one hit. I still haven’t completed it yet… I’m still on chapter 10… I hate this boss.  Flaws  I’ve been singing the game’s praise this entire time, but that’s not to say there are some flaws with the game, one of which is some of the Bosses. The creatures in this game are amazing, especially these bosses, however the flaw is that they can be exploited quite easily by using simple strategies of which are easy to figure out… which is why I’m not gonna tell you about them in detail (that’d be unfair). While this is a problem, it’s not for all of them at least and does not take from the enjoyment of the game. I’m sat here honestly trying to think of another flaw which I feel is worthy to mention yet I simply can’t think of any others. When I upload this review, I’ll probably think of one later that I’ll kick myself for forgetting. If so, I’ll edit this review and mention it at the bottom, if not then assume I really couldn’t think of any more.  Conclusion  Overall, I have to say I fell in love with this game and needed to write this review as soon as I completed it… even though it came out in 2014 and the second game just came out. Better late than never I guess. It is a game that you will regret not playing eventually and I can’t express how much you should give it a go, even if you find yourself not liking it in the end. Hey, at least you gave it a go.  TL;DR: I very much Recommend this game.","hours":35.3}
{"funny_percent":0.05,"helpful_percent":0.717107157102731,"review":"It's what resident evil 5 and 6 should have been","hours":22.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7240268370114527,"review":"This game wants to do everything, while it's not particulary exceptional at anything. You have some simple stealth mechanism You have some action You have some scripted events You have some non-scripted events You have some very basic skill tree You have an average story You have a limited number of odd creatures that want to shorten your life You have a tiny bit of exploration  There is too much this game aims to do and it feels like it loses it's focus along the way. It falls a bit short since it never focuses to one aspect, instead it tries to be the Jack of all trades. The story is alright, not exceptional. And it's more scary for new people to this genre than to horror game fans.  But while this game is not the next best thing among the action-horror games, it is a very enjoyable experience overall. It deserves a playthrough. It's like a cool adventure in a theme park.  It really depends how you look at it. If you set your expectations very high, you might be dissapointed. But If you want a good, enjoyable horror title with good graphics, some nice enemies (altho very little variety), some really good looking claustrophobic places, then pick this one up. Popping heads of zombies feels just as satisfying as ever.  In short it's a cool game. A very cool game with lots of scripted cinematic awesome looking moments, and a good fun. Nothing more, nothing less.","hours":48}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7008918642690306,"review":"Gore and spooky I am not very versed into survival-horror. Following you guys recommendation, I played **The Evil Within** http://store.steampowered.com/agecheck/app/268050/ . With Mikami at the helm (RE4) I was promised a great experience.   Pros (+):  Ambiance  Music  Design, art  Cons (-):  Gameplay  Bugs  Fighting and sneak mechanics  Without DLC : 6.5/10  With DLC : 7/10  ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------   Ambiance First of all, I was scared more than once and had some stress induced moments. But it was more than that, it was not just jumpscare, you tend to be on guard at all times. I don't feel like waiting for something to happen, more than reacting to events and mostly, escaping from them.  Especially those moments when you are trapped in a very small room with one crazy opponent, your brain calculating the odds of success especially fast. Just to conclude that... you should run. The stressful music adding to that fact it is necessary to escape while keeping your distance from the enemy. You can use your surroundings to your advantage, using a multitude of traps to inflict damage.  The stress is here, growing in you the more you advance in the game. The game challenge yourself to keep your cool and analyzing the situation while it happens. **The Evil Within** is filled with moments like this and I believe they are very well made. Those elements are what makes the game great.  The graphics and the art is very well made and showcase a dark and gore environment. While always playing with the head of your characters and yours at the same time. The monsters you will encounter aren't simple zombies and will make you rethink how twisted some stuff can be.  Story-wise, it is very tough to grasp and isn't made for you to fully understand until the very end.. And even then. Lots of symbolic, very few explanations and it is thought that way. I believe this made the entire experience very good Characters are well developed, all with a tragic story.   Gameplay You will always lack ammunitions. Enemies come in horde and are extremely tough to kill. Traps are also everywhere on the map and you need to learn how to use them against your enemies. I think the idea is great, too bad that the AI is extremely weird and will either never respond to your aggression, or just overreact.  The usage of weapons (or even punches) is strange, and there's a lot of bugs, clipping of textures. The problem is that it happens extremely frequently. I can't say the amount of time I missed a shot while the enemy was standing right in front of me, simply because the gun went through the enemy. There's multiple examples with almost all the traps and or weapons. Cumulated to bugs and bad AI, the usage of checkpoints is strange as well and makes the gameplay experience. I really hated the fighting and sneaking mechanic, I feel it was too clunky, especially the sneak part.  Checkpoints are placed at random spots in the maps making you question why they made some spots this way. Sometimes too close one another, most of the time forever away.  On the other hand, there's barely any repetition, always have different way to play the game, beat the maps and enemies.  I played the game on PS4 and PC, the same bugs and review would be made. The lifespan of the game is very reasonable and between 9 to 12 hours.   Conclusion In the end, I believe the Evil Within was a good Survival Horror game that deserved more attention, it is a good game, especially for the price it is right now. It will not be a revolution of the genre, neither will it be a game you will want to replay times and times again. The story and ambiance is amazing, but the gameplay is pretty bad.  I will finish with a positive rating and slight disappointment because it isn't the quality it could have been.","hours":36.1}
{"funny_percent":0.6,"helpful_percent":0.732205656650698,"review":"Slow and tedious starting missions, but the action ramps up quite nicely in the following parts of the game.  Really similar to Resident Evil 4. Less spooky than Dead Space though.  Good game though, well worth 10+ dollarysmackeroonies.","hours":21.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9817775306241361,"review":"The Evil Within is a great horror game with tons of different horrifying looking enemies. I was really impressed by some of the creatures and scenes in this game. Ammo is scarce on the higher difficulty so you have to conserve it well. The DLC doesn't disappoint either and gives you different stories, weapons, gameplay, and new enemies. Overall it took me around 29 hours to get through all of it. What I didn't like is the collectable green gel and the chair that can upgrade your weapons and abilities because it just seemed unnecessary to me. Other than that I really enjoyed this game overall. It's definitely bizarre but fun!","hours":29.4}
{"funny_percent":0.2857142857142857,"helpful_percent":0.932717619963731,"review":"Silent Hill + Resident Evil 4 = (Silent Evil 4 : The Evil Within) that is this game. BUY IT RIGHT NOW","hours":116.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9780692133036422,"review":"If you want more Resident Evil 4 in your life then this game is for you! Just don't forget to turn off the 30 FPS lock and the black bars in the options menu before you start playing.","hours":12.9}