{"funny_percent":0.18652849740932642,"helpful_percent":0.647324153723085,"review":"By some blasphemous coincidence, Kickstarter hosts a great game by a competent team that follows up on promises made by their stretch goals.","hours":19.5}
{"funny_percent":0.06037735849056604,"helpful_percent":0.6864279046626673,"review":"> Buy game for ~$25 > Get 1 free dlc and 2 more coming soon > Game and dlc are better than most $40+ games  10/10 IT'S A MASTAPIECE","hours":22.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6850204520493588,"review":"A good game with free content for almost 3 years. Buy the game and support them, awesome devs are so hard to find these days.","hours":8.2}
{"funny_percent":0.01084010840108401,"helpful_percent":0.8282707479341439,"review":"Great music, platforming that's challenging without being frustrating, cute pixel art, and a really charming world and story. There's a lot to like here.   The extra campaigns are fantastic and bring a lot of new things to the table. (also you can play as a tiny, cute alchemist in a creepy mask who blows things up, which is honestly all I want out of life)  Pretty much my ideal platformer, I think.","hours":28.1}
{"funny_percent":0.0011806375442739079,"helpful_percent":0.6689357430079067,"review":"I've kickstarted this game the very second I saw it and I was not let down.  This game really brings back the memories of how games were when you and I was only children.  The nostalgic \"8/16 bit\" look makes you think of the old NES/SNES and MSDOS days when you sat up hours straight because you could not save or you just could not stop (just one more level). This has all that and more. Remember the annoying sounds and music that some games had due to the very primitive soundboard. Well forget about that with Shovelknight because the music is just beyond awesome. Everything about it screams well done, and there is also a person in the very first town that you can talk to if you want to change the music in case you find it repeatative. Just gather more notepages and he can play more songs. This game is filled with hidden treasure, fun jokes, awesome characters (a horse in a dress!), lovely artwork, great enemies and very well done boss fights.  The game is like a combination of Duck Tales, Super Mario, Mega Man, Faxanadu and many more epic titles + more. If you are looking for anything to tickle the old nostalgic nerve this is the game for you. Even thou I have tried words can't describe how awesome this game is. Try it for yourself. You won't regret it.  TL;DR 10/10 this game is awesome go buy it!","hours":7}
{"funny_percent":0.03225806451612903,"helpful_percent":0.9573586593298262,"review":"Shovel Knight. Initially, there was a single campaign, now named Shovel of Hope. Then came Plague of Shadows, allowing you to play an alternate story from the viewpoint of one of the game's bosses, with completely rewritten story, dialogue, and even some entirely new stage segments alongside the game poking fun at itself (the powerful Relics you'd find as Shovel Knight? Useless trinkets you trade away to the very merchant you buy these from in Shovel of Hope.) Then came Specter of Torment, upgrading all owners of Shovel Knight to Treasure Trove including all three campaigns, local co-op, and - which I believe is a nice touch, as the lack of female combatants in the Order of No Quarter personally somewhat bugged me - a gender swapping mod, allowing you to pick a gender for each character. Female Shovel Knight except that everyone assumes (and talk to her as if) she is male because of that god damn helmet you never see come off? Sure. Body: Female, Text: Male. Done. And now we're getting yet another campaign for King Knight, co-op for the other campaigns, a four-player battle mode - all for free!  And those who don't have it can buy Treasure Trove for 23 bucks. I mean come on, think of mainstream games like Call of Duty or something - 60, 70, 80 bucks for maybe 10 hours of gameplay?  I don't see why Yacht Club Games wouldn't be one of my favorite developers out there.","hours":23.6}
{"funny_percent":0.024390243902439025,"helpful_percent":0.9559074680722637,"review":"This game does so much right. The one thing I love the most about Shovel Knight is that no tutorial teaches you how to play, but the level design itself does, since it's done so well and pushes you to try out different mechanics. Also, the devs are still expanding this game with new content for free. For free! You're not paying anything at all and still get to play as Plague Knight and Specter Knight.  How could I not recommend this game? GRAB IT.","hours":15.3}
{"funny_percent":0.025,"helpful_percent":0.8126976718204019,"review":"That moment when people actually know what \"retro inspired\" means! There is no reason not to try Shovel Knight, no matter if you like or dislike the old-school games. Quality is timeless.  Shovel Knight is, to put it bluntly, simply excellent. It oozes with a deep understanding of what made the games of old so memorable, but it also understands why they were frustrating and what was wrong. Taking from the first pile on fixing the second one is what the devs did, and boy is it fun!  The game is a classic platformer. \"Classic\" means that the levels are relatively short, but each and every single one is crafted of unique parts, introducing a gallery of stage-specific enemies, mechanics and hazards. No two screens are the same, and every segment you will find yourself shovelling through features a new trick or a more intense version of the one you already saw. The latter bit is very important: the devs don't just throw brand new stuff at the player mindlessly, they introduce mechanics in a sensibly \"easy\" (for a given stage) situation, then re-use the element in harder, more devious deathtraps. And then combine them, because if there is something that old-school games did well, it was appealing to our masochistic tendencies.  Now, I might just be bad at games, but Shovel Knight is difficult. Difficult in all the right ways, mind you. The controls never betray you, they are consistent and snappy. There is more than enough customisation to make the game respond to your preferred way of controlling, so you will never fight the game. Kudos for featuring the control scheme doable on NES gamepads, but still allowing monkeys like me to bind Relics to a separate key. The difficulty comes from the need to figure out the proper approach and then execute it. Sometimes, the player will be expected to take advantage of some more nuanced mechanics, prominently down-slash cancelling through activation of a Relic. The tricks can be learned throughout the game and usually, you can make your way through things without them, albeit at a cost of your health or gold.  Gold is what, in my view, fixes the frustration of the old games. There is no life counter of any sorts. You die, you drop gold that will hover in the air; if you can make it from the checkpoint to the place where you met your end, there is a chance to recover your hard-earned coin. If you find yourself dying again prior to that, however... well, the old bags will disappear for good and new ones will spawn. Quitting the stage will reset your possessions, so you can attempt the level as many times as you want, losing nothing. It is a fair system and I found myself learning the levels slowly over many, many tries.  One word about the audio-visual side, as everybody probably saw it from trailers already but it needs to be said: phenomenal. The tunes are catchy, fit the environments and moods of every stage and fight. Accompanied by a very well done pixel art that clings to a style fitting the entirety of an adventure, it enhances an already great experience into something truly fantastic.  Also, the makers are releasing free updates with new adventures featuring different characters. That's just a cherry on the very top.","hours":14}
{"funny_percent":0.05128205128205128,"helpful_percent":0.8675240540503697,"review":"Steel Thy Shovel!     Now THIS is a game!   Shovel Knight came out of no where and has delivered on every aspect of what a game should be and how a developer should act.  I can not put into words how great a game Shovel Knight is, but let's give it a try.  I first bought Shovel Knight on the Wii U. Instantly falling in love, I decided to also buy this game on Steam. Although it looks way better on my 1440p IPS monitor, I gotta say, the Wii U Gamepad made it more fun to play on the Wii U. It's funny how Shovel Knight did the best job utilizing the gamepad. (Pikmin 3 was a close second.) If you've made it to Plague Knight, then you know all about having to switch your potions and spells around constantly in the menu. The Wii U makes that super simple with the touch pad.  Anyways, back to the review..  The graphics for this 16 bit game are absolutely gorgeous. Yacht Club really knows their color schemes. Every single level pops. Every single boss and NPC and character are memorable because of the way Yacht Club has designed the colors to coordinate with each other and really leave a lasting impression. That, coupled with the music, creeps deep into your childish nostalgia chambers, and pulls out all your feels time and time and time again.   Yacht Club themselves seem like some really cool developers. They offer the game at a very reasonable price. They have given us a free expansion. Treasure Trove is soon to drop, which promises more content at a slight increase in price. However, by this point in time, I just want to throw money at them.   The controls for this game are beyond what I expected for a 16 bit game. They're so tight and smooth at the same god damn time. It pulls you in. It makes you want to pogo off an enemies head. It makes you want to get to the next unique enemy. And then, they do it AGAIN with Plague Knight, who is a little tougher to play with, but still just as fun and engaging.   Tl;dr Believe all the hype. This game is perfect. The music, perfect. The graphics, spot on. The gameplay, top notch. The game is ♥♥♥♥ing perfect.","hours":11.3}
{"funny_percent":0.12,"helpful_percent":0.749231518935501,"review":"Fantastic game. Everyone should own this.  Positives: Feels like an NES platformer, but with all the annoyances polished away. Just plain fun, looks cool, sounds awesome, and controls beautifully. Tons of content since the original release, including the recent Spectre Knight which is as good or better than the original game.  Negatives: Every time I finish one of the new campaigns I want more.","hours":14.5}
{"funny_percent":0.07407407407407407,"helpful_percent":0.9608939304193003,"review":"It's so good, I bought it again for 3DS so I could take it with me everywhere.  10/10","hours":17.9}
{"funny_percent":0.7037037037037037,"helpful_percent":0.9535646264751627,"review":"If this came out at the same time as Megaman, we'd have had Shovel Knight X3 right now and Megaman would have been lost in time.  This game does 90's better than the 90's.","hours":11.8}
{"funny_percent":0.5363079615048119,"helpful_percent":0.7704124655460795,"review":"Did you have a good childhood as a gamer? Buy this game immediately.  Did you have a s***ty childhood as a gamer? Buy this game to make up for lost time.  Are you still a child yourself? Beg your elders to buy this game for you.","hours":6.3}
{"funny_percent":0.08169988469774336,"helpful_percent":0.6292136832446276,"review":"I cannot recommend Shovel Knight  because it fails  so hard. You might as well grab 15€ from your wallet and burn it . You will get no joy from this  piece of garbage. I don't want to go anywhere near this game  again. I assure you that you will feel the same. The 8-bit music will drive you insane , the controls are disgusting, the art looks like it was made by an 8-year-old . All in all, I rate this game 1 . Buy Shovel Knight if you are a sucker .","hours":6.4}
{"funny_percent":0.04950495049504951,"helpful_percent":0.6503010994457326,"review":"Shovel Knight is a 2D side scroller platforming game - it was developed and published by indie games developer Yacht Club Games in June 2014. The game was initially released on PC, 3DS and WiiU and then later ported to PS3, PS4, Xbox One and the Vita in early 2015 - it has also made it's way onto the Amazon Fire TV platform too.   Gameplay  You play the role of an anonymous character, as you collect treasure in this 2D world. Your characters main attack is, you guessed it, his shovel which has various uses throughout the game, the main one is being used to hit enemies around the head with. You can also use the shovel to dig up treasures hidden in dirt found around each level. The shovel also comes into the platforming side quite a bit too, you can use it to jump on top of other enemies to bounce up to higher points in order to reach harder to reach areas for extra treasure. I especially liked the way the game handles death, each time you die, you will drop three sacks of treasure, which deduct off you total - when retrying the level, the three sacks remain where you died allowing you to pick them up again, this of course leads to some interesting gameplay elements when you die in a pit of emptiness or other areas where it is impossible to get to without dying again.   Throughout the game you also encounter various traders which will let you spend your hard earned treasure to upgrade your character with other secondary abilities, whilst these are not always needed in order to progress in the game, they certainly make it a lot easier - the upgrades can consist of health upgrades or extra items.  Each level also has an end boss to it; plotting you against some classic NES boss fights, requiring a degree of platforming and classic hack and slash moments. The boss fights are well really done and each has their own unique battle style.   Graphics  The graphics in Shovel Knight are some of the best 8 bit style graphics I have seen. We are seeing this graphic style becoming ever popular on Steam, and it's nice to see a game put so much extra care into producing a well made looking product. Each of the levels are colorful and full of vibrant colours, the animation on all of the monsters and NPCs are really nicely put together as well. This game really will give you a nostalgia hit if you are an older gamer.   Audio/Soundtrack  The audio and soundtrack in Shovel Knight is just amazing - so much so that it was released for individual purchase on release of the game. The soundtrack was worked on the gentlemen who also worked on the Mega Man theme tune too. This is another aspect of the game that will really give you flash backs to your childhood if you played on the NES/SNES.   Difficulty  I found this game to be particularly difficult - again this is down to the platforming side of it because I am god awful at the genre, but the boss scenes are also sufficiently challenging as well. You have to work out the bosses attack patterns in order for you to take as little damage as possible because sometimes, some of their attacks are unavoidable so damage is inevitable. The platforming side has some hard moments in too, whether it be the levels where you have to navigate across floating platforms in complete darkness with only a few glimpses of light from lightning storms to see where you are going. The difficulty is nicely paced and doesn't ramp up too quickly, allowing you to get to grips with the gameplay before throwing you in against the really difficult stuff.   Level Design  Each of the levels in Shovel Knight are really well set out. Each level has its own theme and its own style of enemy to fight against. Throughout each level there are plenty of opportunities to show off your platforming skills for reaching difficult to reach ledges and navigating moving platforms over pits of darkness just to get that one health upgrade! Along with the the abundance of treasure to find in each level either by just killing enemies, you will also find mounds of dirt on the ground and up walls which lets you put your shovel to work, these normally result in thousands of treasure coming out so keep and eye out for them. Along each level, you will come across a number of checkpoints, these checkpoints can either be used as just that, or you can destroy them, rewarding you with even more treasure, but renders the checkpoint useless, so this should only be used when you don't mind having an awful lot of backtracking to do if you die. I made the mistake of doing this twice on two checkpoints without knowing the consequences and I thoroughly regretted it when I realized what I had done, especially when it was the last two checkpoints before the boss.   Game Length and Replay-ability  A full playthrough of Shovel Knight took me just around ten hours to complete - I thought it was a very good length game for it's price, and upon completion the game, you also unlock the \"New Game+\" mode which is something I really look for in any sort of game like this, so it was nice to see. I actually thought this would of been a nice game to incorporate local co-op in someway, but sadly there isn't any element of multiplayer. With the extra game mode, you could easily put about twenty hours into this game, something you don't very often see from Indie titles.   Technical Issues  With Shovel Knight being a 2D experience, the graphically options are very limited, however you can play the game at full resolutions all the way up to 4k, granted it doesn't make that much a difference on the appearance side of things, but it's nice to see it being supported. With full controller support, you should really be taking advantage of that, as with all platforming games - I tried playing with the keyboard and it was just a train wreck trying to get through the platforming...  Conclusion  To sum up, Shovel Knight is a game that will be welcome in 99% of people's library, even if you didn't experience the games on the NES/SNES, you will still get a huge amount of enjoyment out of this game. The graphics are gorgeous, and soundtrack just rounds off this game to be an almost masterpiece. I can't think of anything negative to say about the game. For the price of £10,99, this is an absolute must buy for any gamer out there.    Tom's Score Card 1) Stay away 2) Only recommended when on sale 3) Recommended 4) Highly recommended 5) This is a must play  If you found this review helpful, please consider giving it a thumbs up. You can also find more reviews over at http://www.completingthebackloggroup.com/   ","hours":10.5}
{"funny_percent":0.2,"helpful_percent":0.989592841685589,"review":"At $14.99, I wasn't ready to purchase Shovel Knight. After all, there are AAA titles from well known companies that go for less. I've played through more NES classics than I can remember. Bubble Bobble, Castlevania, Contra (sans the Konami Code, you scrubs :-P), Mega Man 1-6, Metal Storm, Super C, and The Legend of Zelda are a few that come to my mind while trying to make a quick list of some titles I've completed. I wish I could tell you that I beat Battletoads, but I'd be lying. The prospect of reliving the genre with a new game sounded too good to be true. I've played newer \"retro\" games, but even when good, they are rarely able to resurrect the experience the older titles.  When I heard about the release of Plague of Shadows, it wasn't enough for me to buy this game. I thought, \"Playable boss character? So they probably replaced the main character's sprite and gave him a projectile.\" So I kept waiting to catch sale. I finally purchased it at $10.04, and it still took me months to get around to playing the game. After 30 seconds into the first stage I felt like an idiot for sleeping on this title for so long. If Shovel Knight had existed during the NES era, it would be the type of cartridge people would be happy to pay $75.00+ for today.  It manages to completely capture the essence of the genre without feeling derivative. The developers have somehow managed to create a product that draws from the good parts of the 8-bit era while ditching unecessary artifacts. The colors, sounds, and animations are candy to the eyes and ears. I knew I was in for a treat mere moments after jumping into the first stage. I was even more impressed upon making it to the first town and interacting with the people there.  It took me roughly 9 hours to complete Shovel Knight's adventure for the first time, a feat which apparently can be accomplished in less than 45 minutes by highly skilled speed runners. The game encourages you to play through again with New Game+ (higher difficulty) and as Plague Knight. There is also a challenge mode and many Feats (achievements) for you to attempt. I'm currently two stages into my Plague Knight file and don't think I could be more amazed by this game. Rather than opting to lazily reskin Shovel Knight, Yacht Club Games gave Plague Knight his own storyline and unique playstyle.  As if Shovel Knight didn't have enough replayability, the developers are planning to release additional playable boss characters. It is difficult for me to imagine them topping the existing content, but I should probably have a little faith after already underestimating them so grossly. Is this game worth $14.99? Absolutely. Buy Shovel Knight now. If you are a fan of platformers or seeking NES nostalgia, you will dig it.","hours":35.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.801336305004813,"review":"Dig a hole, throw in Zelda 2, Mario 3 and the ghost of Mega Man. Fill that whole with gorgeous 8-bit graphics and sublime chiptune music. Then jump in the hole, point your shovel to the sky and rejoice, my brothers and sisters, REJOICE!!","hours":3.1}
{"funny_percent":0.10204081632653061,"helpful_percent":0.9301337151286556,"review":"Looking for another fake retro game by lazy developers cashing in on oversaturated trends? One with immature memes, pointless obscure NES references, low-effort pixel graphics, and trial-and-error difficulty that'll make you pull your hair out? Good, then look at literally everywhere else, and stay away from Shovel Knight.  Unlike the useless piles of Super Meat Boy clones and the uninspired puzzle platformers, this game does something that nobody has thought of before: it shows us the reasons we love retro gaming by removing all the things we hated about it. Take out the punishing difficulty, unintuitive physics, blinding-speed reaction times, tedious grinding, and ridiculously stressful objectives, and it turns out, yes, there’s still something left to love about the old games beyond masochism and nostalgia, something that was lost over the ages.   Difficulty is not hard, but not easy; it's about just at the right level to feel satisfying when skill takes over. The controls and jump arc are simply perfect. There are tons of secret tricks that aren't explained, but will make you feel smart when you discover them yourself. Tough challenges become simple if you find clever ways to use your items. Graphics use the retro color palettes to great effect and can only be described as sweet, shiny eye candy, nothing like the crappy MSPaint doodles you'll see in other pixel games. It's got powerful, energetic chiptune music that doesn't always make sense, but is catchy and gets you pumped to play -- every track is like some offspring of the Wily fortress music from Mega Man 2 and Castlevania 2's Bloody Tears. You can wreck enemies with the Downstab from Zelda 2, the Deluge from Faxanadu, the microphone from Kirby's Adventure, or even a fishing rod -- or sneak past them with invincibility, if you've got magic power to spare. Best of all, the challenges are rewarding and simply a joy to play from beginning to end -- you'll never feel afraid of what the game has in store for you, you'll just want to see more. And even if you die, you can even get your stuff back if you dare to try again.  Believe the hype. As of now, I consider Shovel Knight the best fake retro game of all time. If you don't get why the retro fad is even happening in the first place, how so many gamers could possibly have such blind nostalgia for such old, technically inferior games with chiptunes and pixel graphics, this game might just show you why we all love retro gaming and why it will never go away. A rare 10/10!","hours":74.1}
{"funny_percent":0.05555555555555555,"helpful_percent":0.7674037517304442,"review":"Taking the best parts from DuckTales, Zelda II, Castlevania, and the Mario series, Shovel Knight is a delightful and colorful action-platformer by the newly-Kickstarted Yacht Club Games. If you had to condense your memories and nostalgia of staring glass-eyed over your NES into a single story, you'd probably come up with something like Shovel Knight.  The titular Shovel Knight must traverse the land, fighting the villainous knights of the Order of No Quarter to save his beloved Shield Knight. Each level takes it's own Mega Man-esque theme and runs with it, from romantic flying airships to an explosion-prone potion laboratory. Gameplay is extremely tight, graphics and sound make the most of 8-bit aesthetics, and a New Game Plus allows Shovel Knight to bear some much-needed difficulty fangs in the spirit of brutal, Konami-esque difficulty.  However, my recommendation for this game comes from it's free DLC, Plague of Shadows. It manages to spin the game's story from a boss's perspective, from heroic gallantry to a touching story of loving others and yourself. It's one of the most genuinely sweet love stories in all of gaming.The updated gameplay mechanics are a delight as well.  This game is throwback a la Jeet Kun Do - taking all the useful and best parts, discarding the frustrating and archaic, leaving an airtight, short-but-dense romp for maximum fun. For those seeking fun, plain and simple, Shovel Knight delivers.","hours":64.6}
{"funny_percent":0.08900523560209424,"helpful_percent":0.6797149474993549,"review":"NOTE: This is a shortened review without screenshots. For my full review, please visit Real Gamer Reviews[realgamerreviews.com]  CAN YOU DIG IT, SUCKA?  I'm sorry. I had to.  This is the best Megaman game that's been made in nearly 2 decades.  This game is a very very high-quality tribute to the games were popular during the late 80's/early 90's. The influences are obvious - The character itself, the level design, boss fights, graphical style and music are very reminiscent of the early Megaman games. The level selection pays tribute to the slightly-less-than-linear level select screen of Super Mario Bros. 3, where there is a general direction of progression, but you may be given the opportunity to stray from the path at times. The shovel jump mechanics are a less-than-subtle throwback to the pogo stick in Ducktales. Most importantly, however, is that the controls are both simple and responsive. If you miss a jump, it'll always because you missed the jump, rather than the game itself boning you. As with most 2D platformers on PC, I would strongly recommend a controller (with the Xbox 360 controller being the standard).  The difficulty of this game is often spoken about. The game is fairly difficult, but I do have to stress that this game is NOT Nintendo difficult. The difference is mainly that although Shovel Knight does have challenging sections, there is rarely a point in the game that is strictly unfair. Most of the time when you die, it'll be more of a \"dammit, I messed up\" than a \"this game is ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥t\" type of thing. Furthermore, unlike many NES games of old, there is no limit to the number of lives you have. Instead, dying causes you to lose a portion of the gold you've collected, which gets left at the point at which you died. You then spawn at the latest checkpoint and have an opportunity to obtain the money that you dropped. This means that there are rarely any parts of the game that require extensive replaying of the same areas over and over again. Seasoned platform gamers (for which this game is most likely targeted at) will probably get through this game without too much of a struggle. Newer gamers however are likely to get stuck and potentially frustrated at various segments of the game. With that said, regardless of how difficult you may find the game, each level you complete will feel like an accomplishment.   As previously mentioned, both the graphics and the music in the game are very much influenced by game such as Megaman. The graphics are, in a sense, \"beautifully ugly\", in that it is an 8-bit style game done in high resolution. The music is more or less the type of chiptune that you'd expect from a game like this. It's catchy, yes, although I found the music less memorable than the NES titles that inspired this game.   Overall, I would recommend this game to anyone looking for a good NES-style 2D platformer. Yes, the price of this is currently relatively steep for an indie game (as it has never been bundled or, to my knowledge, gone on special for any significant amount to this date). With that said, as PC gamers, we are spoilt for choice. We live in an age where, on Steam, and with the overabundance of bundled games, we are able to get decent-quality games for very cheap. From a value-for-money point of view, I would recommend getting much cheaper-but-high-quality 2D platformers such as Super Meat Boy, Limbo, Braid, Spelunky and a host of other games well before you got this one. However, if you're like me and time is a considerably more limiting factor than money, then Shovel Knight is the best value.  In other words, I strongly believe that Shovel Knight is the best 2D platformer currently on Steam, bar none.","hours":10.7}
{"funny_percent":1.2380952380952381,"helpful_percent":0.6240691558280577,"review":"This is the best megaman game ever made.","hours":16.6}
{"funny_percent":0.045454545454545456,"helpful_percent":0.9102825737680412,"review":"Really solid platformer.  A love letter to the NES era, combining some of the best elements of the genre, along with a fantastic soundtrack.","hours":42.1}
{"funny_percent":0.01012809055704498,"helpful_percent":0.8757563938193182,"review":"The idea of a Knight with a Shovel is, ground-breaking.","hours":14.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9591633823000596,"review":"Mega Man + Duck Tales + Mario 3 This game is terribly charming and pure joy to play.  10/10","hours":10.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8035369973567704,"review":"THis game is addictive, well made, and really boosts my confidence that the gaming industry can be saved from itself by small developers making quality content. Where a AAA game company will fail and cheat their buyers, games like this give all they promise and more. I am very satisfied with the game.","hours":36.5}
{"funny_percent":0.11971830985915492,"helpful_percent":0.6806448652136179,"review":"A game which people will write love letters about. A fantastic work of art which takes you back to the 'golden age' of gaming. Simply a must buy.  Developer: Yacht Club Games Publisher: Yacht Club Games Release Date: 26th June, 2014  Kickstarter is something really fantastic isn’t it? I can’t count how many times it has given us good games. Not to mention that those games wouldn’t have never seen the light of day if it wasn’t for Kickstarter and all of the Backers. Just another reason to thank those Backers.  Shovel Knight is like a dream come true. It looks, feels and plays itself like a game from the, how I like to call it, golden age of gaming. The NES/SNES Age. Actually I’d go as far as to say it’s a love letter to the genre itself … just like Axiom Verge. Or no I’d even go as far as to say that Shovel Knight is a game people write love letters about. It’s beautiful. It’s magic. It’s so much more.  Now let’s get into it shall we?  Story You slip into the role of the one and only Shovel Knight. A Knight wielding a Shovel as his weapon. Sounds crazy right? You’re on a journey with Shield Knight as you stumble upon the Tower of Fate. Inside both Knights find an amulet, a cursed one, and Shovel Knight passes out. Upon awakening Shield Knight is nowhere to be found. Thus, he starts to live a depressing life in solitude up until the day on which the Evil Enchantress and her Order of No Quarter show themselves to take over the land. Will Shovel Knight take up his Shovel and face evil? Or will he continue to live his life in solitude and forget about Shield Knight?  Well that’s as much as I’m going to spoil the story for you.  Atmosphere Oh where do I begin? The sound, the look, the feel, the gameplay … a perfect harmony. There’s not one point which I could point at and say ’You don’t fit in here! Begone fiend!’. Really everything works together. If you grew up with the NES/SNES or games like this you’re also struck by Nostalgia. The game certainly has it’s charm, not only for veteran players, but for new players as well. There’s so much love and detail in every character and level that you just happen to fall in love with the game. But don’t get me wrong. Shovel Knight knows exactly when to be cool and stay old-school and when to be hip and defer to a more modern approach. The larger sprites and the variety of colours is something you wouldn’t be able to find and enjoy on a NES/SNES. That’s one advantage of being able to develop and play a Retro game like this on the PC. I grew up in the 90’s and let me just say that back in the day this game would have been acknowledged like a work of art. The way enemies behave, the more than fitting and catchy tune of each level and not to mention the boss fights … It just takes you way back in time and you just remember games like Mario, Mega Man or Castlevania.  Gameplay Pretty straight forward. In the beginning it’s you and your Shovel vs the World. You can jump, of course, and you do have two different kinds of attacks. By pressing the Attack Button you, obviously, attack and by jumping and pressing down you perform a drop attack. But wait there’s more! After some time, and collections some treasure, you’ll be able to buy Magic which helps you to defeat enemies or even a Fishing Route, which you can use on specific places for some treasure. That’s actually pretty much it there’s to say about the gameplay. The game’s really pretty straight forward just like the games used to be back in the day. But that doesn’t mean there’s nothing to learn or that the game is for babies. Au contraire mon frere! You’ll have to learn and memorize the movement and attack pattern of the enemies in order to slay’em.  Visuals While I might have talked ‘bout it earlier let me again get into it. The game’s a work of Art. It looks beautiful and it’s a perfectly example that pixel games aren’t dead and should never die! There’s just something else ‘bout games with such a retro feel and look. Especially nowadays where everyone’s focusing on making their games as real and photorealistic as possible. While this isn’t a bad thing per se … I feel like even if you don’t like games with an art style likeShovel Knight you’re missing out on so much by default. Play the game. But don’t only play it. Feel it. Embrace it. Get lost in it. There’s so much love and detail in every character and in every level that I can’t describe how important it is to just play and enjoy it.  Cheats The game does feature several cheats. One where you start at the last level, or with a specific Armor and whatnot. Keep in mind that if you use cheats of any kind that you'll be unable to unlock any achievements so using a cheat code is just for people who want to rock the game in a fancy way. You can even increase the challenge with said cheats if you want. The most known cheat would be the so called Butt Mode. Stop the giggeling! Okay it actually is rather funny. Here's what it does. It replaces recurring nouns in the game with the word Butt. So if you want to feel like a 12 year old again or just want to have a laugh every now and then this is the right cheat for you. I won't list any more cheats tho since they're easily found on numerous sites.  What else can I say? To be honest with you folks … I could say so much more about the game but I believe I’ve made my point. That point would be: Buy it. Play it. Feel it Love it. Enjoy it. The game is worth every penny and if you happen to see it on sale go ahead and buy it on the spot. It’s a game which deserves your money. It gives you so much back in return. It’s seriously a game which you either end up loving or writing love letters about.","hours":24.5}
{"funny_percent":0.07627118644067797,"helpful_percent":0.856302210156488,"review":"Video review embedded below.  Shovel Knight is quite possibly the best faux-NES game I've ever played.  It's an homage to 8-bit glory, in love with the past but never constrained by it, taking everything that was ever great about the era and bringing it together with a modern design insight. There's a purity driving the experience, distilling the essence of classic 2D platformers without sacrificing depth or refinement, continually asking you to reevaluated your expectations as it pours out an abundance of creativity. It gave me something I already loved and then found ways to make it better, as I made my way through with a stupid grin on my face like I was rediscovering games again for the first time.  There's this fundamental mechanical understanding at the heart of Shovel Knight that forms the invisible glue holding it all together. Every platform, enemy, and secret area is tuned so perfectly to how the game plays that playing it feels almost instinctual, like you knew before even picking up the controller exactly how everything works. And that's likely in large part do to how much Shovel Knight borrows from the games that built the genre it resides in, but there's never a feeling that it's ripping anything off. It's entirely its own creation, with its own quirks and strategies, but playing it is so natural and fluid that it feels like an old friend that's been hiding all these years.  Shovel Knight's understandable nature shouldn't be mistaken for simplicity, as the burden has simply been shifted from interfacing with the game to relentless level designs and boss fights. Progression always feels earned and satisfying, be it a treasure chest at the end, a tricky enemy, or just managing to clear a difficult platform sequence. But Shovel Knight also never falls into the realm of being unfair. Its rules are plainly laid out and death is simply another learning experience, as you figure out new ways to tackle a situation. No matter how many times I died it never seemed as if the game was cheating me, and I always wanted to rush immediately back in to try it again.  Where so many 8-bit games require root memorization and perfect execution, Shovel Knight doesn't want to waste your time or break your abilities; it wants to teach you how to play better. Success is rewarded and brings with it new challenges such as destroying checkpoints for a bigger reward, or secret areas you couldn't access or weren't aware were there before. It made me want to seek out everything there was to see, to take on the biggest challenge to discover new tools and places, and never failed to have something cool to show me at the end.  Playing Shovel Knight was probably one of the more nostalgic experiences I've ever had with a game. It reintroduced me to that raw joy and excitement I had when I first started playing games as a child, but without the memory shattering disappointment that so often comes with revisiting the things I used to love. It stands on its own as a brilliantly executed creation without dismissing that which came before it, familiar yet completely inspired and so unbelievably fun with every swing of your shovel; the sort of game I feel compelled to tell others about and all but force them to play in the hopes they experience what I did from the very first screen.  You can read more of my writing on Kritiqal[kritiqal.com]  YouTube™ Video: Shovel Knight - Review  Views: 226 You can read my full written review on Steam: http://steamcommunity.com/id/mrninjasquirrel/recommended/250760?snr=1_5_9__402 Shovel Knight is currently available on PC via Steam and the Nintendo... ","hours":9.1}
{"funny_percent":0.043478260869565216,"helpful_percent":0.8009291624403918,"review":"It really is as brilliant as everyone says. Yes, this is absolutely going for a classic 8bit art, music and gameplay style, but it's way better than just some nostalga gimmick. Basically, if you've ever enjoyed any kind platformer and haven't played Shovel Knight, play Shovel Knight.  The only thing I don't like about it is the checkpoint and gold recovery system. I had to train myself to stop going after my dropped gold when it's in a tricky spot, otherwise I just keep dying and losing all my gold. That plus sparse checkpoints meant a lot of replaying the same section over and over.   It's a lot less frustrating once you've gotten over the difficulty curve though, which took me about 6 hours and most of the game.","hours":11.1}
{"funny_percent":0.14705882352941177,"helpful_percent":0.7236936830301095,"review":"Shovel Knight is one of those games that you instantly fall in love with. It borrows from all the best games (Zelda 2, Megaman, Mario 3, Ducktales and Castlevania) while retaining a style and humor all its own. It has incredible platforming, a lot of items, but the thing I loved the most was the design of each one of the characters from The Order of no Quarter. WOW! The environments and characters have so much detail and personality to them, it's surprising to see that level of detail in an NES 8-bit style game. Yacht Club did such an amazing job with this game. It gives the nostalgia off the NES and it does it by it's classic-style game play. If you like Mega-Man, Link's Adventure, and other 8-bit adventures, then this is for you.","hours":26.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6200924997837874,"review":"It masterfully combines elements from classic NES games, but doesn't use the 8-bit setting as an excuse to make the graphics less detailed and pretty. With 3 different campaigns, an amazing soundtrack and a slew of tools that let you approach situations the way you want, you're definitely getting your money's worth.","hours":35.5}
{"funny_percent":0.21621621621621623,"helpful_percent":0.9136034058377864,"review":"I know i never write actual reviews on games that are fun, but this... this is a master piece. A very challenging game, accompanied with astonishing art and music, with the combination of the story itself, makes this my ALL TIME favorite game i have ever played. I have only finished Shovel Knight's story, but it made me cry, even if i am a tough man. :^) I'll edit the review as i go, but the story, was truly, the best thing i have ever seen, the music, really well made and  fitting with the story, and the art style is amazing.  99/100 - I broke a pencil  P.S. Just kidding, 101/100.  Worth its full price in every. single. way.","hours":19.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7395248824857352,"review":"I just played through an unforgettably groundbreaking adventure that was all at once Mega Man, Duck Tales, Zelda II, Super Mario Bros. 3 and Castlevania, even a little Dark Souls, all wrapped into one rich and fertile package with the raw, earthy gameplay refinement of a Treasure game, (Gunstar Heroes, Dynamite Headdy) and prepared by the fine green thumbs of Game Design at Yacht Club Games (Previously employed at WayForward and responsible for some truly awesome stuff) and all graced by the glory that is Jake Kaufman's golden rays of musical sun, as well as a couple tracks from Manami Matsumae who was responsible for some of the classic Mega Man series soundtracks.  In other words, this is some of the best, most delicious, fresh-grown and ripe-off-the-vine gaming goodness $15 can get you at this moment in time. I couldn't sling dirt on this game if I tried, I just dig it that much. If any of the above made you want to enjoy some sidescrolling platformer goodness in spades, or excavate a hole in the ground just to escape all the digging puns, don't hesitate reading silly reviews, don't bury yourself in doubt, (oops sorry I did it again) just see for yourself how tasty and wholesome this Shovel Knight stuff is. You won't regret it.  P.S. Just watch out for the 'pits' ;)","hours":33.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.62031075888074,"review":"Shovel Knight is what happens when a devoloper loves their game, and the fans do to. I dont need to tell you about the platforming, etc, youve already seen that. The important thing is that I bought this game when it was simply Shovel Knight. Played it, was nice, fun, all the positive stuff. Then, one day, I open up steam and see its downloading an update. I basically got a sequel to the game for free, and it was great! Then... when S K was long forgotten in my library, I see another update. Another free sequel. The gameplay stayed fantastic, the characters still nice, story convincing enough. And you can get all three games basically for the same price I got all three then, they didnt upcharge or anything. For all we know there could be a fourth, fifth, who knows how many other ones coming. Put simply, its a good investment. Dont like platformers? You shouldnt get it. But if you in any way do, buy it. Ive put 30ish hours of solidly satisfactory gameplay beating each version, and could sink tons more in if I was a 100%er. And from a personal standpoint, I feel great supporting a dev team like this one. So yeah. I'd reccomend it.","hours":30.4}
{"funny_percent":0.05,"helpful_percent":0.782144296376662,"review":"Shovel Knight was the first game I 100% on Steam and I do not regret any of those 85 achievments ( except Vector Victor, Horace you evil ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥ ). All 3 campaigns are filled with fun gameplay, charming characters and an amazing soundtrack I'm going to go through each campaign one by one and review them.  Shovel Knight: Shovel of Hope  This is the original and main campaign of the game and is filled to the brim with charm. Shovel Knight takes inspiration from Castlevania, Megaman, Mario 3 and especially ( in my opinion ) Ducktales. The gameplay is tight and the level design is very well made with lots of challenge. Another thing that not many people mention is how amazing the soundtrack is. The tracks are so catchy and fit their set so very well., they even got a Megaman composer to do two songs for them! I love this game with its really fun gameplay and characters filled with personality, this is probably my favourite campaign.  Plague Knight: Plague of Shadows  This may be my least favourite campaign compared to the other two, I still love it but I see a couple of things that brings it down to be my least favourite campaign. What I love about the campaign is its gameplay and its use of level design. Plague Knight is very mobile and makes gameplay with him super fun. Despite Yacht Club re-using stages, it really comes out as a positive for the game because even though Plague Knight controls so differently to Shovel Knight, it still makes the stages work and offers a new challenge for each level. Its a hard thing to describe but basically its great level design by Yacht Club. I don't love the plot and characters from this game, it just doesn't really have the charm of Shovel Knight for me. I'd also prefer if they'd make a new soundtrack for this campaign. I'm also not a huge fan of the bomb customization but thats just my own personal opinion. Still a great campaign but is my least favourite one.   Specter Knight: Specter of Torment  It seems this campaign fixes a lot of the problems of Plague Knight. Theres a new soundtrack, probably the best plot of the campaigns and has some great characters. Specter knights gameplay is very different to the other two knights and feels like Ninja Gaiden in gameplay with all the attacks. Climbing and jumping off walls, targeting and slashing enemies makes the gameplay super fun. The new soundtrack is mostly remixes of the Shovel Knights music and in my opinion, most of these remixes are better than the originals, sounding very up-beat and even more like Megaman. It's very good and it again it matches the levels so much. On the topic of the levels, they are designed for the playstyle of Specter Knight and is very entertaining. The plot for the game is the best of all three, you get a very good look into Specter Knights personality and the challenges he faces. Some minor problems I have is that despite the new bosses being clever, they feel too easy and I think they are more flashy than a real challenging fight. I also used the items very rarely and they dont seem as situational as Shovel Knights items. Other than that this campaign is very fun and a great add-on to Shovel Knight.  Conclusion:  Shovel Knight is such an amazing game and despite my review of Plague Knight having problems, it's still great and remember both DLCs are completely free! Even if you are not into retro games, I think its worth a try and I promise you won't regret it.","hours":68.4}
{"funny_percent":0.016129032258064516,"helpful_percent":0.7955643107883555,"review":"Yacht Club Games should receive a medal.","hours":22.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8884119666860706,"review":"There's literally nothing bad about this.","hours":25.7}
{"funny_percent":1.368421052631579,"helpful_percent":0.6323726531455311,"review":"Product received for free  good thing his armor is blue, because it hides my tears.","hours":18.4}
{"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":0.9814635350818995,"review":"God damn, this game is good.  Speaking of the base game (Shovel Knight, not incl. the other free expansion campaign) it is amazing. I've never played games from the era that this is retro to, but that just shows that it's amazing in it's own regard.  Controls are tight, levels are interesting, and it has just enough of a simple story to be compelling. 10/10 would reccomend. ","hours":15}
{"funny_percent":0.1267605633802817,"helpful_percent":0.6357566725717445,"review":"Pros: + Beautiful artwork + Awesome soundtrack + Great variety of enemies and levels + Challenging ++ Local Co-op!!  Cons: - ???  Definitely one of my favorite games this year!!   10/10","hours":11.7}
{"funny_percent":0.024691358024691357,"helpful_percent":0.8293100621282539,"review":"\"Shovel Knight.\" I think it is safe to say this is one of the most hotly anticipated indie titles coming out this year... I'm trying to figure out how Yacht Club Games did it. Did they boil a vat of nostalgia stew using \"Dark Souls\" bones for flavoring; a stew Carl Weathers and Samwise Gamgee themselves would be proud of? No. Did they lock \"Dark Souls\" and \"DuckTales\" in a candlelit room with Barry White blasting? Maybe. However they have done it, they did it. The crazy ♥♥♥♥ers did it. They made a fun game, an homage to why we started gaming in the first place. This is not the greatest game in the world, no. It is simply a tribute. A great tribute nonetheless.  It is a simple premise: Shovel Knight and his warrior BFF Shield Knight got their pixelated butts whooped. Shield Knight is MIA and Shovel Knight took an early retirement. But now a new and evil force is out in numbers - the Enchantress and her Order of No Quarter. Shovel Knight heads out on one last quest, to restore goodness to the land.   You travel from level to level, dispatching enemies and platforming very similarly to \"Ducktales,\" complete with treasure collecting and atypical weapon use. You have two attacks (along with some magics) to deal a variety of enemies, each with their own weaknesses and tactics. It is deceptively challenging. Not \"tear your hair out and sacrifice your firstborn\" challenging, but a fun challenge. There are secrets to find as well, so keep an eye out for things that look out of place.  The levels are wonderful... each one is unique and beautiful to boot. I am getting tired of pixel games, honestly. All these RPG Maker games... hideous and same-y. But \"Shovel Knight\" is gorgeous. It reminds me why pixel-style art made a comeback in the first place. Everything flows and you'll find yourself taking dumb damage because you are busy staring at the background and stages.  The gameplay,charming story, and excellent levels are great but the soundtrack, to me, is the star. I equate the \"Shovel Knight\" soundtrack to that of the \"Halo\" soundtrack. It is integral. It is inspired. It is catchy as a ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥.  I would be remiss if I didn't mention the boss fights. Amazing. Think \"Dark Souls.\" Every boss has his or her own special style, one that you have to master. Expect a challenge.  This game is cute. It has heart. And it wears its influences on its sleeves, from the bonfire checkpoints to the treasure chest brimming with pixelated treasure. \"Shovel Knight\" is not a risky game; it is not doing anything new. It is doing something tried and true. But it does it honestly and with its own unique charm. \"Shovel Knight\" is a blast.","hours":12.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9034898470507227,"review":"Hours of fun, difficulty thats challenging but never frustrating, free DLC... This is a glowing example of independent game development.","hours":27.3}
{"funny_percent":1.28125,"helpful_percent":0.9524761308738998,"review":"Never underestimate how epic a garden tool can be.","hours":28.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9989896833811197,"review":"This game is awesome and the developer support is beyond awesome. 2 thumbs way up.","hours":13.1}
{"funny_percent":0.09090909090909091,"helpful_percent":0.6947421971399861,"review":"I know it's a little early to post a review for this game (at least in my opinion) as not every feature has been implemented yet. However, I still wish to review the game as it is with the three current campaigns we have. (Plus a pretty cool rename)  First off, I need to go ahead and say this, every campaign plays differently from each other. I'll go more into depth of that later. I love the pixel art of this game. Call me a nostalgia addict, but I really love this game's visuals. Everything is so well animated, and yet so detailed. As for the soundtrack of this game, Jake \"Virt\" Kaufman strikes again with his excellent compositions! (Seriously, I can't get enough of this guy's work)   The gameplay of Shovel Knight's campaign, Shovel of Hope, can be simplied as a \"Mega Man-like Ducktales adventure\" by some people. And I can't disagree with 'em. I can't shake off the feeling I'm playing a Mega Man game, yet it isn't Mega Man. The plot is, while not very innovative, still is kinda engaging. However I don't think plot is important, since after all the gameplay is where it's really at. I ended up caring for everyone in the story, even the knights you go up against of the Order of No Quarter. The balance is very fair towards beginners, but it becomes more challenging at the end. There's no real penalty of death other than losing gold, which you do have an oppertunity to get back. This penalty mechanic applies to every character, as of now.   Plague of Shadows however, is where things become obvious the game plays very differently between different characters. If you're familiar with Star Fox Zero, the game had a long learning curve with its controls, they were pretty functional and fun once you get used to them. Now, why did I bring this up? Plague Knight actually feels the same way. Instead of using a shovel, you're using potions. I can't really explain how this goes, but there's a lot of customization with how you can create your potions later in the campaign. Once more, the balance is fair, but it expects you to have beaten Shovel of Hope and had a grasp of what to expect out of levels.   Then we get to Spectre of Torment, the most recent campaign as of this review. I don't know where to begin with this. Not only is this a prequel to the stories of Shovel of Hope and Plague of Shadows, but it also has entirely new mechanics to play around with levels and bosses that aren't as familiar as they seem. Also you get to play as what some people call the \"edgelord\" himself. While it is a new style of gameplay, it's much simpler to grasp over Plague of Shadows in my opinion. As for the difficulty, there isn't much of a difficulty curve at all, except for the last levels of the game (in which it spikes a lot). Unlike the previous two, you're allowed to choose every Order of No Quarter stage right from the beginning. This means there's no world map and you can determine the difficulty by which stages you tackle first.   All n' all, I'm very satisfied with what we got with Shovel Knight. While they could have stopped with the Shovel of Hope campaign, they went far and beyond and are fulfilling every kickstarter milestone that was accomplished, and even making the campaigns feel like different games rather than \"copy and paste\" everything.  While the price has been increased due to being more than one \"game\" now, I still think it's worth the price of admission, especially with King Knight's campaign being released sometime in 2018. So what are you waiting for (unless it's a sale), \"Steel Thy Shovel\"!","hours":25}
{"funny_percent":0.007947019867549669,"helpful_percent":0.6703655211632645,"review":"I dig it.","hours":8.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6580084822868889,"review":"One of the best games i ever played: -very entertaining bosses -great level designs -beautiful soundract -hilarious characters -awesome story -hard but fair","hours":16.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6563566246561509,"review":"This game has many great things going for it. The content is amazing and the controls feel tight. When you die you feel like it is your fault and not the games. The plauge knight expansion is also amazing as shovel knight and plauge knight are as different as day and night. The story for both shovel and plauge knight were suprisingly deep and I realy came to care about the characters. I do somewhat worry about how Yatch club games will be making their money by giving out of these free expansions, as this is one of the games I would happily pay for its dlc. Here are some of the pros and cons  Pros:  -Excelent controls -Great story -Shovel knight and Plauge knight play very differently -Great bosses -Exellent music -Interesting Relics/Arcana -The random Npc interactions -Good looking 8 bit style  Cons: -It is a bit too easy to get all of the Relics/Arcana, along with any other upgrades, in the game and you will eventually have all of this cash but nothing to spend it on except maybe health potions, and that is only for Plague knight. And while in plague of shadows they try to extend the amount of time it takes to get all of the upgrades by using cipher coins, which I am perfectly fine with, except even then it still felt a bit quick.  Conclusion: Despite the one problem I have with the game, it is a relitivly small problem. The positive definetly outway the negitive. If a friend of mine asks me about any good games I have played Shovel knight is one on the top of my head. I can easily recomend this to anyone. I can't wait for Specter of torment to come out.  Final Verdict: 10/10","hours":85.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9291037521408746,"review":"There are a lot of video games. Many try to capture a retro style to win over a nostalgic crowd, or try to pull a more unique art style to grab people's attentions. Others tell deep stories that hook you in, make you feel invested, like you have to get to the end. Few try to sell on quality gameplay alone, something that's genuinely fun to play.  Few games do all three. Games like Dark Souls, Shadow of the Colossus, Bastion, Transistor, Earthbound... And now, Shovel Knight.  From start to finish, Shovel Knight is a fantastic game. In the first level, it teaches you how to play subtly without throwing it out at you in a text box, much like Megaman X had done years ago. The controls are simple, each move shown to you as you accomplish it on your own without heavy handed guidance. Even the ability to identify an alternate path or a hidden wall is subtly placed into the world, so you always know what to look for. And everything is used throughout the game from then on, in new, creative ways each time, through platforming and combat.  There's more to my mentioning of Megaman. Shovel Knight uses the original color palette of NES... The very limited number of color choices presented is clear in the still vivid scenery. It stays true to its nostalgic feel. Each world is unique in more than just appearance as well. The variation of enemies is absolutely beautiful, new types of critters appearing in every single stage. Even Rats, re-used throughout the game, are fought completely differently each time. From little Helicopter Rats to ones that outright explode when killed.  And finally, the story. The prologue is simple, a tale of fallen heroes... Many more than you'd think at first. But Shovel Knight gets up, and goes to fight the good fight. The story builds up further in short conversations with enemies. It deepens as you fight your rival more and more, until you learn something about him that changes everything. But most importantly, this game is about saving Shield Knight... And when Shovel Knight dreams, there's only one thing he dreams of.  Buy Shovel Knight. Don't wait for a sale. Play it.  Catch her.  Addendum:  Years pass, things change... While this is a great game, this is currenlty the worst version of Shovel Knight on the market. PS4 has an exclusive level and boss. Xbone has an exclusive level and boss. Wii U gets challenge modes, some type of diary, and even co-op.  The PC version has nothing extra, no redeeming features other than being a great base game and extra campaign. But why does the PC version have to be the worst on the market? It's a scummy thing of Yacht Club Games to do, punishing PC players for being just that.","hours":24.7}
{"funny_percent":0.047619047619047616,"helpful_percent":0.9902456204980354,"review":"A glorious little trip to the past, where everything we had was a kickass soundtrack and gorgeous animations in few bits without forgetting to include HUGE amounts of detail.  I want to see more triumphs like this one come out of Kickstarter. This game is great. Bought it full price. Worth every single penny. This game deserves your attention, and so does Yacht Club. A dev team i'll be following closely to see what they can bring us next.","hours":17.8}
{"funny_percent":0.043478260869565216,"helpful_percent":0.7023631073892935,"review":"Genre - 2D Action/Platfromer with RPG elements  This game was clearly designed for nostalgic purposes and it does the job well. You control the shovel knight and can dig, and bash enemies with his weapon of choice. You fight through various stages and will face various puzzles, traps and enemies, but with even spaced checkpoints you won't pull your hair out too much.  I have just earned the halfway achievement after dying many times but I still think this is a great game. The level design is challenging but not too unforgiving if you have a bit of patience. You can also upgrade a bit against the bosses allowing a hard fight to become more reasonable (Dark Souls style). There is a lot of humour within the game adding a few giggles to your progress. I would recommend using a controller to make the game more fluid.  They recently released a free DLC that adds a whole new challenge as the Plague Knight, but I think it will take me a while just to finish my first playthrough. I am pretty crap at these type of games, which normally means they have to be pretty good just to keep my interest.","hours":7.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7242200108044353,"review":"So, another retro-style 8-bit game pops up. Many may think that the style is horribly overdone today and will pay no attention to Shovel Knight.  I have a message for those of you - if you like platformers at all, DO NOT IGNORE THIS GAME.  Shovel Knight takes place in an unnamed kingdom, under threat by the Enchantress and the 8 Knights of her Order of No Quarter. Sounds familiar, doesn't it? Yeah, the Mega Man comparisons can be pretty plentiful, especially since the Mega Man series is what I usually see as the best platformers ever made.  STORY:  The story is pretty run of the mill, protagonist (Shovel Knight) and his companion/lover (Shield Knight) roamed the land in search of adventure, until one day, Shield Knight was taken from him by the dark power of a magic amulet. Don't roll your eyes just yet, because it gets good. While the story is simple, it deepens as he game goes on, through little bits of dialogue you may come across here and there.  -----MINOR SPOILER - KEEPING IT AS VAGUE AS POSSIBLE----- There's a sequence near the end that shows that Shield Knight is not a flat, boring character used just to provide a love interest for the main character - she has her own merits, and is an equal, and that sequence shows just how well they work together and how much worse off Shovel Knight is without her. All that is shown through gameplay that lasts...about 3 minutes, 5 tops. ----------  So, the story actually stands up pretty well.   MUSIC:  Holy hell, this soundtrack is incredible. The tunes are extremely catchy, and, strangely enough, I would actually encourage you NOT to listen to any of the music outside of the game until you've heard it inside. That's right, I'm counting music as spoilers for this game. Jake Kaufman has done an amazing job as always.   Mega Man 2 always had my favourite 8-bit soundtrack. Up until I played this game.  MINOR SPOILER: There is one track in the game that has taken my place of best sad 8-bit song from Mega Man 3's Proto Man Theme - Shield Knight Requiem. You'll know which track this is when you play the feels inducing sequence it goes with.   GAMEPLAY:  The game plays brilliantly, the jumping is precise, the controls, while a bit weird at first (A and D for left and right, W and S for up and down, J to attack and K to jump) work very well once you get used to them. The level designs are all done very well, with specific mechanics and enemies being used in each of the Knight Lairs, and in each specific Lair alone, keeping the game fresh and interesting and, most importantly, challenging, as you have to learn new adversaries and mechanics to deal with. Almost all deaths in the game feel like your fault, something you can improve on.  The bosses work differently than most bosses I've seen in platformers like these. In other platformers, the bosses will have an attack pattern, performing attacks in a pre-determined sequence. Learn the pattern, and you can take the boss down with ease.  Not the case here - the bosses in Shovel Knight have set attacks, but completely lack any pattern. This makes the bosses do their job MUCH better - testing the player's skill. You have to learn their attacks, not the pattern - you need to learn their attacks and make sure you know how to counter them.  The checkpoints are a point of interest, because, save for in the first level and the final level, checkpoints can be broken to yield vast amounts of money, rendering the checkpoint beyond use. Death does not punish you by knocking off a life, leading you to an inevitable and frustrating Game Over. Instead, dying takes away some of your dosh, which you must then recover in the next life if you want it back. Sometimes these flying bags can end up in awkward or downright unreachable places, which, while annoying, could be viewed as punishment for messing up, encouraging you to improve. This checkpoint system means skilled players can receive a large monetary bonus if they so decide. Of course, getting cocky and then messing up after destroying checkpoints can send you from any length through the level all the way back to the start, so choose wisely.   LENGTH:  The game lasts around 5 to 6 hours, depending on your skill, on the first playthrough, an ample length, but it's packed full of secrets to find, one of the most notable being the Music Sheet collactables. 46 sheets are out in the world, hiding wherever, which can be returned to the village bard, who will pay you 500 gold for each, who can then play them for you - the music sheets in question form the game's soundtrack, so you can listen to your favourite tracks (provided you found the sheet) while scurrying about the village.  On top of that, there's a New Game +, unlocked after beating the game for the first time. This makes checkpoints much more scarce, about 2 per level, where once there may have been 3 times as many, healing items are almost never found, the most healing you'll get is the Ichor Of Restoration (given by the Troupple King (I could explain what a Troupple is, but you're better off finding out for yourself)). Trying to beat the game like this is even harder, and would probably add a fair bit of length to the game (I say would; I've not actually been able to finish New Game + yet.)   VISUALS:  The design of the levels and foes, aesthetically, is brilliant, with each stage's looks, features and enemies having their own style, keeping the game looking new and interesting. The game was designed with a limited colour palette, to mimic the NES's restrictions. Of course, not all parts of the game, such as the parallax scrolling or a few colours the NES's limits prevented here and there, but overall, the game stays very close to the 8-bit era it's based on, with the UI looking like it's come straight out of Castlevania, and the overworld map being very reminiscent of that from Super Mario Bros. 3.   OVERVIEW:  Shovel Knight is an 8-bit platformer that has elements from previous games of the era, and uses them magnificently. it excels in all areas. It's not just a retro 8-bit platformer aspiring to be like the classics - it's better than the classics. It's challenging but enjoyable, and has enough of its own merits to stand tall, without needing to use nostalgia as a crutch - the NES era was not my childhood, that was the PS1 era. So if Shovel Knight's not sucking me in with nostalgia, then it must be something else giving me this rampant love for the game.  The early Mega Man games used to be what I considered the best platformers. That title now belongs to Shovel Knight. This game is EASILY worth the £11 (or reigonal equivalent) price tag.  If you enjoy platformers, are looking to get into the genre, or are a veteran of platformers, you owe it to yourself to buy this game.","hours":24.9}
{"funny_percent":0.03225806451612903,"helpful_percent":0.7747566632782581,"review":"It is the combination of Super Mario Bros 3, Mega Man, Castlevania, and a slice of Metroid with an amazing soundtrack and art to back that up. Go buy this game as soon as you can, you will not regret it.","hours":28.8}