{"review":"Hi, i'm THAT one guy who buy Call of Duty for it's single-player campaign with no interest in multiplayer whatsoever. So here is my humble summary.  well paced, more polished than previous games good mechanics interesting weapons and equipment dogfight is fun enough ground combat is a bit repetetive, but in a bearable limits i even found there a few likable npc characters i cared about (oh, Metal-1, i miss you)  However i had some issues with a game like crashing a few times. But that's it.","hours":11.7,"funny_percent":0.055201698513800426,"helpful_percent":0.7600849256900213}
{"review":"I am almost exclusively play campaigns in games, and this was no different. I'm not a multi-player gamer. I can't discuss the multi-player portion of Infinite Warfare, but I can say that I really enjoyed the single player campaign. It was fun and exciting, and eventually after about 7 hours, I began to care about the mission and my NPC comrads. It's not the best game as far as storyline goes, but it does have one that makes sense and is delivered pretty well. I found Wolfenstein: New Order to be a better game with better story, but this was good also. I would say that for any price below $30, it is definately worth it. The environments and models are GREAT. I often just stood around and looked at the beauty. AI is pretty dumb at times, but at other times not. All around a good one.","hours":9.8,"funny_percent":0.020689655172413793,"helpful_percent":0.7862068965517242}
{"review":"Product received for free  Uninstall button works well.","hours":0.9,"funny_percent":1.338432122370937,"helpful_percent":0.7246653919694073}
{"review":"If you play the Call of Duty games for the campaign this is one of the better ones. Recommended if you get it on sale :)","hours":7.6,"funny_percent":0.024539877300613498,"helpful_percent":0.7055214723926381}
{"review":"Love the campaign. Hate the multiplayer.","hours":9.1,"funny_percent":0.0989010989010989,"helpful_percent":0.5970695970695971}
{"review":"Product received for free  Campaign is fun. I didn't play multiplayer.  If you like space combat in fighter jets, and also want a pretty cool zero-g run and gun experience with your normal boots on the ground stuff, this is up there.","hours":9.9,"funny_percent":0.07547169811320754,"helpful_percent":0.8113207547169812}
{"review":"Bought this for the campaign and it was worth it. The best Call of Duty campaign since Modern Warfare 2. There are things in this campaign that you haven't seen in any other game before. Fighting in Zero G is extremely rare by itself, but a stealth mission in an asteroid field where you infiltrate a destroyer class ship? That is f*cking cool. In this campaign I didn't even hate the characters, they aren't so unsympathetic a*holes like in most Call of Duty campaigns. The campaign also has a new structure and there are even some side missions, which are obviously not as exciting as the main missions, but still good enough to be worth your time. A little disappointing that you unlock the \"Specialist\" mode only after beating the game. In this mode you don't have regenerating health, but a classic health system. The dogfights in space are very spectacular, but also really simple and it's almost impossible to die. The story doesn't go nowhere and the motivations of the bad guy are so absurd and never explained, and the villain is probably the most boring one from all Call of Duty games. There are tons of setpiece moments and the levels are in locations you haven't seen before in other shooters, not at this production quality and variety. Lots of small little neat ideas, like shooting glass behind enemies which will vent those enemies out of the room, or a hacking device to hack enemy robots for a short duration and self destruct afterwards.","hours":7.7,"funny_percent":0.1,"helpful_percent":0.82}
{"review":"The Battlestar Galactica videogame we never got.  First off I want to say that I'm not a big CoD player, never have been. My interest in the series has only peaked very recently due to the sci-fi settings the series has moved towards and I do not extensively play the multiplayer. As such my review will focus mostly on the single-player elements.  This game was a pleasant surprise for me, the campaign was exceptionally well acted and quite well told, the graphics and facial animations in particular were spectacular. While I found much of the military jargon cheesy, the characters felt like real people who behaved in believable ways, and that allowed me to connect with them emotionally in a way that I've seldom seen videogames accomplish. Ethan especially was an absolute joy whenever he was on-screen and he left a lasting impression on me that will stay with me long after I've grown bored of this game.   The missions were numerous and varied, taking the player all around the solar system and weaving near-future sci-fi elements and locations into the story that were grounded enough that they never broke my immersion, and very interesting to explore. I found myself frequently wandering environments just taking in the scenery and examining machines and vehicles. Walking around on the surface of Europa, Mars and Titan was genuinely breathtaking. I found the around ten hour campaign to be a little on the short side, I would have been very satisfied if they had added a few more side missions for good measure. Short but sweet.   The gameplay is standard for CoD, there's little to no innovation here in terms of gunplay besides the usual slew of new gadgets and abilities (many on which seemed to be borrowed from its counterpart Black Ops 3). It is however tight and refined, if unimaginative. The space combat on the other hand was an unexpected and welcome addition, that while fairly shallow, was fun and immersive. I would like to see this game mode expanded upon and fleshed out in future titles.  As well as the campaign the game features a mulitplayer and zombies mode, the former of which seems to be completely non-functional at this stage. I bought the game knowing this in advance, however I was pleasantly surprised to see that the game features bots for offline play and so I was able to mess around and try out the different modes and killstreaks. The only opinion I have is that it is standard, much like the gunplay it is a tried and tested formula that takes no risks and does not seek to innovate. I found it inferior in every way to BO3's offering (which is still has a very active playerbase) though not unenjoyable.  Zombies is a mixed bag, in theory I love Horde/Wave Survival gametypes, but the CoD offering always seems incredibly obtuse, overcomplicated and unfriendly to newcomers. You're absolutely inundated with a deluge of nonsensical information and mechanics, all of which is poorly presented and explained, then thrown into an environment that gives you very little opportunity to explore and experiment so that you can get your bearings. This leaves the player lost and confused from the get-go. I think it's better than BO3's Zombies mode, or at least slightly more accessible and forgiving. Perhaps these game modes just aren't for me, I long for a wave survival gametype without any of the complications and distractions that are prevalent here.  I have to mention that I found the game's install size to be absurd, at almost 100GB it took me eight days to download on my connection, and then I had some significant issues getting it running. Searching error messages on Google for an hour before you can play is never a good first impression for your new game, and even after I got it working I found the in-game performance to be less than stellar. There's a lot of stuttering present here that might really annoy you, and it really brings the campaign down a few pegs by making it overall less smooth and responsive. I feel these issues are engine-related and a result of sloppy Q&A, as my hardware far exceeds the recommended specs and, while beautiful in places, the game isn't breaking new ground from a technical standpoint. Not to say that it's a bad PC port however, as the game features full controller support, an FoV slider, and native UHD support for multi-monitor configurations which is very welcome. While the 90fps cap did not effect me personally, as I use 60Hz monitors, it should be noted for people who wish to play at 144Hz.  Overall, the game leaves something to be desired where performance and stability is concerned, though I found it playable and it didn't prevent me from enjoying the experience.  In summary this game really stands out for its great campaign, it's a spectacular romp through the solar system with relatable characters and some really cool and well throught-out technology. If you're here for multiplayer, then keep walking, this game isn't going to give you what you're looking for. I'm kind of sad that the CoD fanbase has review-bombed this installment into the ground to the extent that it has, while vitriolic and negative on the best of days, this edition of the multiplayer really seems to have drawn their ire and they've pushed the game's score far lower than it rightfully deserves. I doubt they took the campaign into consideration at any point, or ever cared about the single-player element to begin with. Makes me wish that the talented writers, actors and animators were working on something that wasn't handcuffed to such a toxic community.             ","hours":14.1,"funny_percent":0.07936507936507936,"helpful_percent":0.746031746031746}
{"review":"Okay, at first it was hard to accept the fact they are in space. Yes I know, but it shows how years are passing by as their technologies evolve ever since MW1. The story of the game is way better than it was in BO3, so are graphics. Guns and everything were awesome, what so ever and no regrets, at the end of the day.  9/10 Indeed.","hours":104.3,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8928571428571429}
{"review":"The community itself is what killed Call of Duty, NOT this game, not any other games, it was purely us.  To be quite honest, this game has been quite fun to play without the \"tryhard\" community. Okay wait, if you're all pissy right now because of the word \"tryhard\", take a breath and continue reading.  This game has allowed me from previously being a \"Zombies-Only\" player in Call of Duty to now enjoying the multiplayer in the Call of Duty games due to practice against players of my skill level that don't spend their entire life in front of the screen. This game reminds me a lot of Advanced Warfare mixed with Black Ops 3. Both of those games I loved due to the reasons stated above. Yes Black Ops 3 still had a large community but still got a lot of hate and community leavers due to self-endulged reasoning. In other words, you're greedy as hell. Yes, it might not have taken place in space, but the core of every call of duty game is practically the same asides from the new exo-movement system that has allowed for many different fps styles within the past few years.  Call of Duty is trying different things because this toxic community just thinks that they can ♥♥♥♥♥ about everything they want and get it. Well guess what? You wanted new things and you got it and you're still complaining about how it's not good enough.  The thing is, that they're really trying to make us happy. Why do you think WW2 is coming out this year? You think they knew that Infinite warfare would crash and burn this badly and started making a WW2 game right after to make up for it? LOL it takes YEARS to make a Call of Duty game. They were planning this before Black Ops 3 was even released.  Think about it this way... Any game can really be good depending on the way you look at it. For this game, these are my reasons why: The Campaign in this game is incredible and the detail and story to it is just fantastic. The Multiplayer is almost the exact same as Black Ops 3 and all of the maps are diverse and easy to find people on. The Zombies, although it's kind of geared for younger ages, is still very well done and fun to play with your friends. It might not be Treyarch quality, but it's still fun and that's what matters isn't it? So honestly, this game is exactly what people ask for. But, sadly this is what happened...  This game blew up into a meme due to this Community we have become, and it's disgusting how people base what others think as their own opinion. People were making themselves multiple accounts on Youtube just to DISLIKE the video BEFORE the game even came out.  I know many of you may not agree with this review, and quite frankly I could care less because this is not a review to hate on the community. It's a review to spark people's actual interests in this game and many to come on how to actually use your own knowledge to buy a game rather than listening to what everyone else is saying about it.  It's plain and simple, if you dislike this game, then don't buy it and stop complaining about it. Me persoanlly, I would recommend If you want to give it a try to see what it's actually like, then buy it.  It's not a bad game.","hours":25.2,"funny_percent":0.04149377593360996,"helpful_percent":0.5975103734439834}
{"review":"Although the multi-player maps give me dejavu. I like the futeristic weapon-tech on current frames. The main story isn't terrible... I recommend this if you like space theme games.","hours":20.1,"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Almost didn't buy it because of the reviews but clearly the reason this has a negative score has nothing to do with the quality of a game you are getting.","hours":47.4,"funny_percent":0.019230769230769232,"helpful_percent":0.6923076923076923}
{"review":"Alright, so here's my thoughts on Call of Duty: Infinite Warfare's main campaign:  I've played through most of the games of this IP. And I never really liked them much to be honest. Not gameplay-wise. Because of their totally idiotic enemy AI mostly.  To be quite fair, to create an enemy AI in these kinds of games are pretty hard to do, especially when you are supposed to storm the enemy, without making them too easy or too hard or just boring. Unfortunately, Infinite Ware is no different than the other CoD games in this regard. It's enemies work pretty much like the others. It's gameplay works pretty much just like the others. Like Modern Warfare or Black ops, take your pick.  However, I noticed something really interesting once I completed the game I unlocked a new difficulty. This difficulty is how I think the game is really meant to be played.  Instead of regular regen, like all the other Call of Duty games you now how to manage your health and lifesupport. You get replacementparts for your suit and stimpacks along your route through the campaign. You will have to manage individual bodyparts, like if you take a shot to the leg, you won't be able to use ADS while moving. Nor sprinting. If you take a shot to the arm you won't be able to use ADS at all. (Aim Down Sight) It's called \"Specialist\" No health regeneration. Healing from Nano Shots only. Helmets take permanent damage and need to be replaced. Nano Shots and helmets take up equipment slots. Movement impacted by receiving leg shots. Aim down sights and equipment use affected by receiving arm shots. Enemies can shoot weapons out of your hands. Etc.  The problem with this, is exactly the same as I mentioned before: The enemy AI. They are far to good att hitting what they aim at, that is... probably you for the most part. They don't seem to care too much about your teammates, they mainly aim for you. And they will hit you. 99.9% of the time. If they made their aim a bit more... realistic, and guns a bit less accurate maybe... This game would have easily been game of the year material. Unfortunately, they didn't make any deviations to the Enemy AI or much how ballistics works. (Except that it will take about three or four shots to the head to kill an enemy... What's up with that really? I don't get it.^  Of cource, you can't take that ammount of damage or you will die. Unless you play regular. Where you can sustain an interesting ammount of damage and still keep going. A second or two in cover and you will be back to full health like usual.  However, the campaign design in Infinite Warfare differs GREATLY from the other games in this IP. As Captin Reyes, you will have more or less full command of the warship Retribution. You can't fly it yourself of course, but you can choose some of it's missions! In other words there are main missions, and optional missions, and you can choose in wich order you want to ececute them. Just like Black Ops, you can manage your equipment, from guns, mods and your \"Skelter\" Wich is you figter jet. Fully space capable with hyperspace abilities. There are special missions designed specifically for this fighter, so you will have the ability to take it out on raids, dogfights and everything and I totally LOVE this addition to the game. I find theese missions really enjoyable because they make this game a lot more than your regular Call of Duty military shooter. You're not a marine. You're not Army. Not Air Force. You are part of the Earth Navy.  There is no \"America\" really anymore. It's just earth. Against, primarily Martian colonies that decided they need to take control of the Earth instead of just being used. (The Expanse? Anyone?)  The Story writing in this game, is easily the best I've seen in any Call of Duty game! The campagin is easily the most enjoyable experience I've had in any one of them.  Black Ops.. three? gave you the ability to manage your eqipment through your base of operations. Infinite Warfare leaves you in charge of the Retribution, a capital ship in the Earth Navy. So not that much have changed there.  The weapons however, despite at first being very similar to the Black Ops experience, is overhauled and gives you a much more distinct feel for them. They feel individual and you will pretty fast learn wich ones you like more than the others. There's one in specific I really like, a submachine gun that doubles as a shotgun. Unlike the other CoD games, not all your weapons are ballistic anymore. As you will face combat in space and zero-g, some of the guns are energy-based. (However, I noted that ballistic weapons works just fine in space as well so this addition was a bit curious...) Energy weapons does not work better on bots either, but the guns power/damage output decides what kind of damage they do in general. They should have made that addition, energy based weapons should be better on bots, while ballistic weapons should be more efficient on people. I AM pretty glad they didn't addition energyshields to the mix though. The game would have felt more like Halo if they did, instead, without them, the game feels more like something else. Like it's something own.  Gunplay in Infinte Warfare is pretty much the same as Black Ops 3 in general. Same thing about mods management and equipment slots. But they have somehow a lot more personality to them. I like what they did here. I really do.  Pity about the AI, that drags the score down. And... yeah, bots... feels really lame. Especially since one of them is actually on your team and he is unnervingly human. Voice and emotions, the whole shabang. E3N or, Ethan. ^^  I give the campaign a 8 of 10. It looks really good, it writing is really, really good! But plays out more or less the same as the other call of duty games.  Sure, they wanted to make a Call of Duty... They could have made something different if they wanted. (And I thing they secretly really did!) But Activision decides I guess.... The game could easily have been amazing, had Infinity Ward gotten free reins with the IP. Something entirelly different. Not new, it reminds a lot about what Unreal 2 - The Awakening was trying to be. Infinite Warfare COULD have been that!  Gung Ho captain with a capital ship going corsair. Or maintaining the law... It could have been another Mass Effect had they wanted it to. But better. As good as the game really is, I can't help but see a lot of wasted potential!  But it's a great gampaign! No doubt about that.  If you expect a Call of Duty experience you won't be disappointed. More likely strangely suprised with what they have accomplished.  So, 8 out of 10 for a Call of Duty singleplayer experience is not bad. I recommend playing it!  As for the multiplayer.... I never liked CoD's MP mode much. Maps too small, guns too boring, gameplay too... I don't know. I didn't try Infinite Warfares multiplayer, nor the Zombie mode. But expect more of the same.  Same weapons as the Black Ops 3 experience more or less.  I STRONGY recommend a computer that runs the game at 100fps or more and a G-Sync of FreeSync monitor (Depending on your graphics card) It's a totally different experience than playing it i 60Hz V-Sync. (Those that have tried this, knows what I'm talking about)  And put that xbox controller of yours aside, use the mouse. (And I usually prefer the controller, but not with these games)","hours":12.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8148148148148148}
{"review":"Best COD campaign I've ever played. Played it 6 hours straight one day to finish it on easy mode, then I finished it on Veteran the next few days. Multiplayer looks like same old COD though.","hours":18,"funny_percent":0.07142857142857142,"helpful_percent":0.6571428571428571}
{"review":"Just like No Man's Sky, this has no working multiplayer.","hours":236.8,"funny_percent":2.4893617021276597,"helpful_percent":0.5957446808510638}
{"review":"Should this be a COD game? No.  This game is quite a hated game by a lot of people. But honestly it isnt a overall bad game. It makes the COD franchise look horrible just like the other 2 futuristic games.   -Campaign The campaign is quite interesting. First off with mission selection, selecting side missions to do before the main one. Another thing is the loadout selection that was introduced in BO2. The campaign overall has a decent story that is a little difficult to follow. Overall 8/10  -Multiplayer The Multiplayer is the same as BO3, same movement system, same over and underpowered weapons. But This Game introduces Weapon Variants, which are basically the same weapon but with perks. It gives weapons a new feel, but youll probably be killed by a NV4 or a Reaver Variant Overall 6/10  -Zombies Zombies is my favorite part of this game. I have most of my hours on it alone. Zombies gives us an introduction to 4 new characters and a Narrator. The short before each Solo game gives an explenation on the whole situation, a must watch to understand. The gameplay is simple boots on the ground, theres plenty of fun things to do. Overall 9/10  Summary- 7.5/10 The Multiplayer is truly the only downside of this game, the toxic players and ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥tness of weapons. Its a good game to play for Zombies and Campaign","hours":27.3,"funny_percent":0.03125,"helpful_percent":0.75}
{"review":"I loved this game. It doesn't deserve the hate.  I like COD for the story mode and I don't hesitate to say this is their best campaign ever. Good story, real characters (by COD standards) good flexibility in missions and side-ops, nice assortment of guns that feel credible in your hands. I have been waiting since MW2 for COD in space and I finally got it. I hope IW has the balls to make IW2.   I didn't care for the multiplayer as much but I didn't dislike it.  Pretty fed up with the loot crates but at least it wasn't as bad as BO3- I really hated getting new guns from crates when I already bought the deluxe edition.","hours":409.8,"funny_percent":0.04285714285714286,"helpful_percent":0.5928571428571429}
{"review":"This game doesn't deserve the hate it gets. Don't get it for the multiplayer, that's completely dead.  The campaign though is one of the best I've played in the CoD series. Haven't had this much fun with a campaign in a while. The spaceship combat is absolutely wonderful.  The basic zombie map is also pretty great, especially for people who like treyarch zombies and a dash of retrowave. The hate has become a meme at this point and it's sad to see.  I feel sorry for Infinity ward who get all the hate for their ideas. Ghosts had a believable vision of \"future-earth\" with fun weapons, infinite warfare has refreshing and fun spaceship battles.  Get it on a sale or something, the campaign and zombies are absolutely worth it. If you want a multiplayer CoD game, this is not it. And don't get it for the MW remaster either, that game is even deader than this one.","hours":12.4,"funny_percent":0.06521739130434782,"helpful_percent":0.5815217391304348}
{"review":"Loved the story.","hours":43.3,"funny_percent":0.045454545454545456,"helpful_percent":0.7727272727272727}
{"review":"Do NOT get this game for the multiplayer aspect alone because the MP in this game is its weakest part. This game truly shines in the campaign. This game IS the best campaign in the entirety of the Call of Duty series. The writing, characters, setting, gameplay, everything fuses so well together in the campaign and it just oozes with quality. With a very strong cast and story it really holds its own in the singleplayer department. This game also has some Mass Effect like qualities in terms of the campaigns hub and the way you can tackle missions. You can do missions in any order you want as you see fit. From space combat to ship assaults and infiltration, hostage rescue, weapons aquisitions, massive battles, and more! This game has tons of variety in the campaign and is worth playing and buying for the campaign alone. The multiplayer isn't bad. Far from it, but it's not exactly great either. It's fun for a few rounds and then it starts to get stale. Black Ops 3 is by far the better MP of the two. But I cannot stop praising this games campaign. It is outstanding. Campaign - 10 Multiplayer - 5","hours":19.9,"funny_percent":0.04519774011299435,"helpful_percent":0.576271186440678}
{"review":"Now, Let's have an honest look at this game. The game runs amazingly well for me. I haven't had a single stutter in the game in my 26 hours of playing this game.  I had a look at all of the currently available modes: Campaign Zombies Multiplayer (PvP)  So let's analyse each of them in their own section shall we?  So the Campaign has a great immersive story with a decent amount of content. It took me about 10 hours of playtime. What do you do in these 10 hours? Well, that's not that easy to describe due to the large variety this game offers. The basic part is obviously the whole shooting on foot. The weapons feel well balanced and enemies react well to beeing shot. They don't just run to their position sit there, shoot every now and then and stab you when you are to close. Well they still stab you if you get to close. But, i remember a situation where I had to defend some sort of chamber and it was the most fun I had in shooters in a long time. It was a huge chamber with 2 floors and several TYPES of enemies. They offered me a lot of stuff that goes boom and said HAVE FUN KILLING! Enemies flanked me and made it hard for me to just stick in a position. So my solution? Fight through one side and force my enemy to reposition them which gave me some easy kills. Get some explosives to deal with the big guys and so on. It's a situation that shows how much fun a modern military shooter can be as it mixes some classical shooter elements with new shooter elements. Sadly Health still is on regeneration and not on pickups/Medpacks of any kind. But well it's CoD that's to be expected.  Enemies have improved a lot. And i don't mean \"oh they kill me faster\" way. I mean, they ACTIVELY try to flank you and surprise you. They have a better Ai than some games that are purely PvE like Payday 2. The Ai is horrible in that one.  So the ground part offers a lot of open spaces, with space combat and much more. It's great and one of the best I have seen in a MMS.  Now the second big part of the campaign is flying a freaking Space Ship. It does feel great flying through space shooting other pilots in their fighters, while sieging carriers. The game keeps momentum in Space (as the rules of 0 Gravity dictate) It doesn't always feel completly fleshed out and it can be sometimes a bit hard to actually understand where everything is.  There is a whole lot of things to explore and the campaing convinces with a solid gameplay and amazing Space sceneries.  Beeing able to blow up windows in a space station to let enemies get sucked out into Space just feels great.    Zombies:  This one felt a bit out of place for me. It takes place in a movie. 4 Players fight against oncoming hordes of zombies that will get stronger over time. Players get money for fighting off Zombies and can buy more parts of the Space Park where they can find better weapons to buy or better positions to defend. I haven't beaten it and doubt it can be beaten as I had a Zombies session going for 40 minutes. Lots of upgrades and abilities dropped by zombies as pick ups keep the mode fresh. It's fun getting the unlimited grenade upgrade and blowing up zombies with grenades for a few seconds. Definetly worth trying out if you like Zombie game modes. It's well made and has it's own kind of humour. I have personally never been a fan of these modes but I can see player putting in 20+ hours in this mode easily.    Multiplayer:   Oh boy, it's a fast paced PvP shooter. People die fast but a slow paced approach can often help aswell. Sieging positions. Tactical grenades and so on. It's a normal Multiplayer with a lot of unlockables ( if you are in that kind of stuff...) which bothers me personally. I haven't felt like I have no chance due to not having everything though. It feels amazing to kill a few people by flanking them and giving them a few quick head shots. The community is surprisingly nice. If you aren't into the fast paced shooter though this could be frustrating.   Technical stuffs for PC Gamers: FoV goes up to 120. You can render up to a 200% render resolution to increase fidelity of the game. Colourblind mode: Available FPS: Solid Stable 60 FPS (I wish for 144 but well it's good enough) AA: SMAA T2X and FXAA Borderless window mode available.  The basic settings you'd expect are all here. Nothing is missing.  It really is a solid game and can offer a lot of fun to players who are open minded to the whole sci fi setting. The Campaign alone is worth the price tag. DO NOT BUY THE SEASON PASS UNLESS YOU LOVE THE GAME! AND I MEAN REALLY LOVE! Don't let random hate comments overshadow the game. Look at honest reviews. It's currently a \"cool thing\" to hate on Call of Duty. The game doesn't matter for these people.  Random hate is more important. People don't point out why the Infinite warfare is \"the worst cod ever\" I don't want to invalid those peoples feelings. But you have to keep in mind: \"Are these people actually informed about what they are talking about\"   I don't mind having hate on this positive Review. But as someone who hasn't played much CoD before I was surprised how much fun I had/have. Be a smart and informed Gamer instead of a sheep in the herd.  Have fun gaming! ~ChickenDash","hours":28.7,"funny_percent":0.07262569832402235,"helpful_percent":0.5754189944134078}
{"review":"One of the best single player.","hours":14.4,"funny_percent":0.08333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.8333333333333334}
{"review":"I really do recommend this game, extremely fun zombies (if you dont suck) and amazing campaign... mp sucks just dont play that and youll be fine!","hours":253.5,"funny_percent":0.04918032786885246,"helpful_percent":0.5901639344262295}
{"review":"Pros: - Great campaign with a solid story and some fun side missions. - Gameplay is smooth and there is plenty of variation. - Movement system feels great and allows for varied movement through maps. - Zombies isn't as good as Tyrarchs but is still good fun. - MP is fun but very frenetic and it will take time to get use to the speed of. - Runs well and looks good.  Cons: - 90fps mp cap. - Lootcrate system which you can pay real money for is essentially pay to win. :( - Small playerbase. - No server browser (please bring this back for all cod games). - Only populated mp mode is TDM.  Also keep in mind that whilst it runs fine for me some people have reported performance issues (though none here with and i7 3770k, 8gb of ram and a 970). Recommend getting when on sale, the campaign alone is worth the price of admission then and the rest is essentially a bonus.","hours":72.9,"funny_percent":0.02857142857142857,"helpful_percent":0.6142857142857143}
{"review":"I don't know if this is a good game by COD fans standards, but it is - and I say this about the singleplayer campaign, as I don't play multiplayer - a very good sci-fi action game in general.   It's actually a bit sad that it will probably be overlooked by potential players because of the Activision and \"COD\" in the title, because it's basically action version of the first Mass Effect in a way. You fly in, jump out on the ground, run around the map and shoot, use special powers, jump into cockpit again, do some space dogfight, hitch a ride on a dreadnought, destroy it from the inside by hacking robots to kill their own captain, jump out in the space, see a very nice cinematic story development, use galaxy map, chose some side missions, kill some dogfight aces, crash, recover, ... And all the while with Battlestar Galactica vibe (surprise attack by a terryifing enemy, bare remnants of the fleet defending, every victory is kind of a defeat and so on).  It's a fun game with solid mechanics and an interesting story. If you're reading this in 2018/19 or later, and crave for a solid action game in space/orbit but also on the ground, feel free to check it out, don't mind that it says \"COD\" in the title if you're not into COD. It could have been called anything else too.","hours":8.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8571428571428571}
{"review":"+++ 100 hours Call of Duty Infinite Warfare REVIEW +++  I can't say it was love on the first sight. First of all, I did not pre-order the game on Steam as I did with all the other CoDs since BO2. No, I bought it as a cheap key at a keyseller. Then the first time I started the game it was a big disappointment when it comes to the competitive multiplayer. The textures were too pixelated, the colour-scheme mixed up and yes the worst it had those micro-stutters I hated from CoD Ghosts, which made the MP of Ghost to one of the worst in CoDs recent history. So, I put it aside and started to play the solo campaign which completely blew me away and made me not leave it until I finished those exciting levels full with action. From then I did not play the game for a long time. Especially the Zombie mode was and still is in comparison to Black Ops III a joke. Ridiculously colourful, to be ashamed of, no spirit, nothing... I would say the Zombie mode is the weak point of Infinite Warfare.  After several Updates, I came back to the competitive multiplayer and I was surprised. The coulour-scheme has been changed, the pixelation has been gone and the game was running butter smooth. So, I played some more and started to really enjoy the new collect and quartermaster system. Also, the maps were well-designed with some specific spirit that stick to the mind. Well done for this. Today I come back to IW every single day. Even if it is only to get my daily log-in award or to to play the weekly contracts for special items.   Sure, the number of player online is decreasing and when WWII will come out it will definitely be to almost zero. But I can't say that I do not find a match in Team Deathmatch - no DLCs though. So, there is always a match to play. That's for sure. But of course, as long as the player number online is so low and as long as they sell DLCs and split the player base with every single DLC even more, there will stay this feeling of being deprived of some big part of the game you actually paid for as a Seasons Pass Owner. BO III tried to alleviate this problem recently with a free trial DLC month. It's not the solution, but a step into the right direction. Titanfall 2 is definitely doing better in this regard by abandoning DLCs and Season Pass in general, but giving a free map or mode from time to time. This is progressive and in line with the new term of \"Games as service\" created by Ubisoft. In the future, this will be further developed, since DLCs and Season Pass lost their interest to most of the gamers and always on is the new standard anyways.  I would like to conclude by thanking you that you have read my unconventional point of view when it comes to Infinite Warfare. I know that a lot of you guys dislik CoD a lot and actually you are looking forward to trash it with every major release. Fair enough. It is a huge brand that is exploited brutally since every year a new CoD comes out and actually most of the players move on to the new “version”. But since we are spoiled with a lot major AAA release every month the long-term interest in a game also has been changed profoundly. I am proud that I kept playing a game for 100 hours. You might say under 1000 hours it was a bad decision to buy a game…  Overall CoD IW is a decent competitive FPS with a very motivating achievement system. It is fast and easy to learn. You do not need to be a 1000 hours FPS gamer to succeed once in a while, but you can also learn to master it and be called cheater in the end for sure. (Good feeling). The community sucks. The anti-community is hostile as crazy and hurtful too. But if you like CoD, stand up for the game. Play it and do not let you be irritated by the haters. Have fun with CoD IW. I will and will definitely until WW2 comes out in September and then I move on to new CoD and will enjoy again, for sure, since it feels familiar from the beginning.  RECOMMENDED ","hours":234.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9}
{"review":"Bought it for the story, 5 bucks on Key-Store. I must say, it was totally worth it.  The first few Missions are really chaotic and intense, but thats not a bad thing. Thats the first CoD i played, where you have main- and side missions.  Well, you have 3 Main-Missions. And plenty side missions, which are just way too short and don't affect the story at all.  You got an own Space-War-Fighter, the controls are great. Shooting enemy fighters feels satisfying.  Gameplay is ... Well, CoD since CoD 4. Not much difference.  The Jump-Boost and Wallrunning feels more fluent and.. better than in Bo3. There are less weapons than in older CoD's, but that didn't bother me.  There are two types of weapons:  >Energy-Weapons, which shoots lazer-thingies and do better against robots. >Bullet-Weapons, which are just normal weapons and of course better against human.  The Story is simple: Kill all Mars-People, because they want to destroy the Earth. Yes, the main charakter (you) talks. I needed 9 Hours to complete the campaign at highest difficulty.  Graphics are good, the cutscenes look amazing. Still, the cutscenes can be annoying. They replay after loading screen. So you watch the same Cutscene twice.   I saw plenty bugs, most of them were just funny to watch. But those bugs didn't destroy the game. Perfomance is surprisingly good, ran at V-Sync 75FPS without drops, playing on rx 480 and i7 7700k.  A few missions are annoying and unfair, especially at the difficulty i played, but i did it.  If they didn't call it Call of Duty, it would be probably not that hated, as it is now.  Don't buy for multi-player, it sucks and i had literally no fun. Didn't try the Zombie-Mode, and i don't think i will.","hours":10.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"PERSONAL STORY   Happy 1st anniversary my most beloved game! It has been such a long and interesting year for me with this game. Still to this day, I can't write a proper review for this game, because of how much I like it and how much love is built up inside me so that I can't even express it. I daily checked Charlie Intel for any COD 2016 news since New Year. When I first saw the reveal trailer for this game, I was like \"oh pleease, another futuristic COD? Seriously? C'mon I was hoping for a modern one! But then again the leaked cover image looked nothing like one, that I saw on Charlie Intel.\" I saw the dislikes and got surprised, but by the time I saw the trailer the dislikes were barely 10K because how early I saw it since I was sent a notification and I instantly tapped on it, but the L/D ratio was very negative. Eventually I grew more and more addicted and interested in the game, impatiently waiting for the release. I also fought many people in the reveal trailer's comments section and various other social media, saying that IW's hate was unjust. Then I followed up and counted down for the E3 showcase, and I absolutely loved it! And then IW finally got the pre-order function on Steam, so I used all the money I saved up for it. Throughout the summer 2016 I was so much bored and didn't know what to do, playing bo3 made me sweat from boredom and I grew extremely tired of it (even tho I got addicted into SOE Easter Egg hunting). Then Comic Con dropped, I even got more and more hyped and excited for the game, I definitely loved the Campaign footage, and the cast was just amazing. Then I decided to make a thread here on Infinite Warfare Steam Discussion Forums out of hype, which is entitled \"This Game Is Going To Be Game Of The Year 2016!\". You can find it here in the forums, it's currently the most commented on thread in this whole forums. I took my time endlessly arguing and fighting off many-many haters out there. In the end it was worth it, I successfully told them off that everyone's opnion should be respected and it was about time haters ceased bashing me for my opinion, calling me a cod kid and all sorts of stuff. It's archived now, but you still can read through if you have the time. Time passed, the zombies and multiplayer reveal trailers released, and I couldn't get even more hyped. There was a beta arc going on, but I couldn't play it as I am on PC. The only thing left for me to do was to just wait for the release. November 4th came, the game got released. It was so awesome, tried mutliplayer with my friends first, dope...; days later finished the campaign and I couldn't be more thrilled and exhilirated, the story was so epic and aura-giving. I also couldn't be more hestiant to shredding tears, it was so damn good, and I also liked the little easter egg at the end of the credits, gets me everytime. Then I spent the whole year playing this awesome game, without even realizing how fast time flew by. So yeah, that pretty much sums it all up, I'm never gonna go back to past-set games, only modern and future (and in between). I'm gonna get the game on Chirstmas tho, at least I'm planning to, mostly because of the vast player count, which IW didn't get. Now I can't play the game anymore, Infinite Warfare is now deserted.  The only thing that is left for me to do is wait, as I have started a mental campaign for the road to Infinite Warfare 2 and Infinite Warfare 3. Yes, I have high hopes for them, especially when they flirted about it and mentioned them during summer; it got my pump up so damn high.  TIME FOR THE REVIEW            SETTING AND FEATURES  I absolutely loved the idea of having future combat, not that we haven't had any previous games with similar time setting, but this game just took it to a realistic level and just did it right. All that space combat, dog fighting, advanced grenades, smart equipment, door-peeking system and every other awesome and cool features that I can't remember right now. Because of this awesome game I got disadapted to boots on the ground gameplay, and it made COD:WW2 look so backwards-generated for me in terms of technology. Oh and I probably forgot to mention how much I love the music, in this game. Just the goosebumps I get when I hear Operation Black Flag (which plays during the final battle in the fire-control room), and the main menu music, GOD I love it.        CONTENT  The Content has been amazing really. I cannot talk general about, so here are its sub-branches reviewed seperately.    GAME MODES  Even though I love the game so much, the lack of extra game modes was kinda sad. I mean, these 3 game modes are the COD-standards, I'd be pumped to see more game modes like its predecessor Black Ops III had, for example \"Nightmare mode\" and \"Dead Ops Arcade\" and all that stuff.  Campaign - Best campaign I have ever played in the whole game media. No other game can beat the storyline this game had, I want Infinite Warfare 2!; 10/10. Multiplayer - Multiplayer was damn good, it got me competitive for some weeks and I was so addicted to it. However this addiction was only interrupted by the limit of player count, which is still a problem for me up to this day. Don't tell me this is a copy of Black Ops 3, that game has an awful hit-detection and plus connection issues. Definitely liked the playlist-updates as well. All-in-all it was a good multiplayer, something that I had fun with really very much. Zombies - A good game mode, but it is also a good overused game mode. I mean like c'mon do you know how many times this game mode got ripped off? Every Call of Duty since Ghosts had this game mode. I had fun with it though, as a matter of fact I've had the much more fun with this than other Call of Duty Zombies mode. My favorite map is Rave in the Redwoods by the way. Easter Egg hunting again.  OTHER  All those people hating on the game for one of the main reasons being supply drops? Like seriously? Why do you even bother...like you pay, you get, if you don't, you don't. Simple, even I didn't bother while being such a fan. Why spend money on weapons that have the same strength as the free weapons?                                                    COMMUNITY  Just like in any other Call of Duty, toxic, unfriendly....and yeah. Pretty much in every single match I see people insulting each other or shutting someone up just for using a mic. And no, this is not console, I've never met a 12 year old kid blowing in the mic that all you COD haters speak about. If you disable chat in your interface, then you're good to go. Oh and by the way, don't play very well, because you'll get called a hacker and get reported. But that won't do any harm to you so yeah.        TECHNICS  No optimization issues whatsoever, a little bit lack of graphical settings though, but ok.         MARKETING  The game is well priced, and all that blathering about MWR is just nonsense. I bought Digital Deluxe Edition because I wanted both. And no, I don't regret pre-ordering it. The only games I'm gonna pre-order next will be Infinite Warfare 2 and Infinite Warfare 3 (if they'll exist).     CREDIT   Thank you Infinity Ward for making this amazing game. It was truly a thrilling and eventful ride. I hope you are conisderate about the concept you talked about, that is...you know, making this a sub-franchise, it would damn good. You are the innovator of the series after all, and I respect you for that, and an awesome coincidence that both the originators of the series and the makers of my favorite game of that series are the same developers. Thanks again, and have a pleasant year! :)","hours":441.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8888888888888888}
{"review":"Disclaimer: This is a review of the Single Player Campaign only. I'm not big on CoD multiplayer. Also, I have finished this title previously on PS4, so please disregard my playtime as of the time I'm posting this review.  So, I personally LOVED this game's campaign. Trust me, this was very surprising to me as I had previously not really loved a CoD campaign in forever. Some were quite decent, like Advanced Warfare, and some were horrendous, like Black Ops 3 and Infinity Ward's very own Ghosts.  I was quietly optimistic about this game though, I actually liked it's reveal trailer. I thought it looked cool tbh and had no issue with the futuristic setting. In fact, I really liked that the vehicles, suits and weapons etc (absolutely fantastic weapon models btw, some of my favourites in any FPS) and thought they looked believably developed tech-wise from where we are now.  The game has that bombastic, Hollywood blockbuster CoD feel to it, but it also allows more player agency than any previous entry in the series. In between main missions players are able to branch out from the main narrative and perform side ops, these allow for new weapons to be added to your arsenal and upgrades and new cosmetics to become available for your fighter jet, the Jackal. Many of the side missions, and main missions for that matter, allow you to fly this awesome bit of kit and it's a lot of fun, and nowhere near as \"on-rails\" as CoD usually handles vehicular traversal/combat. It's a really nice touch and makes the game feel far less linear than other entries in the series.  The title looks absolutely exquisite for the most part as well. Sure, the engine does show its age here and there, and some textures don't stand up to close scrutiny, but overall, the presentation is almost always consistently excellent. I'd actually say Infinite Warfare looks routinely spectacular. Character models and facial animation is another area the title excels, perhaps only bettered by Advanced Warfare in the franchise.  The story was enjoyable from beginning to end, and propelled the action appropriately. The antagonist is a little one dimensional but honestly, who cares? Your protagonist and his crew are a likeable bunch, in particular the wise-cracking robot Ethan, and the story actually has some surprising moments of gravitas that I definitely appreciated.  In summation, I liked this title quite a lot. I cannot comment on multiplayer as I'm not qualified to do so, but the single player was a big win for me. I think it's unfortunate the game didn't get the reception I feel it deserved. Speaking for myself, I found the campaign in this title 1000x better than the manure that was Battlefield 1's campaign. Which was, in my opinion, such a boring collection of disparate stories cobbled together to form a fairly forgettable whole. It looked good, but that was about it.  Performance wise, I have it maxed on settings at 1440p and running at an almost constant locked 125fps(the SP max refresh).  However, I highly recommend Nvidia users do not use the most recent driver; 384.76. This driver was initially tanking my framerate hard, and was in some sections dropping as low as sub 20fps! After investigating, I found this was an issue many were experiencing. Rolling back to 382.53 seems to have completely remedied this situation and performance is buttery smooth","hours":8.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7333333333333333}
{"review":"The multiplayer is what you'd expect it to be. Normie♥♥♥♥♥♥for 12 year olds.   However, the campaign in this was the best since the MW2 glory days. If you can get it cheap, pick it up. Definitely don't get it for the online components, though.","hours":6.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6842105263157895}
{"review":"Sooooo this game gets a ton of hate. COD is a polarizing series, absolutely. I had not bought a single COD game singe MW2. I purhcased purely based on the fact the Campaign in Infinite Warfare was supposed to be the best since MW2....and its TRUE. The campaign is great. I havent tried the multi or zombies, but those have always been an afterthought to me compared to the campaigns, as a veteran and enthusiast of COD 1 and 2, where the campaigns were the highlight. This game does so many things right and the setting of space is utilized to its utmost potential. If you are looking for a good campaign after all these years, its finally here, that is the only area this review is touching.","hours":11.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.875}
{"review":"The campaign is amazing, especially compared to the previous installments. The characters & story are well-written, easy to follow and very immersive. It's rather short as usual but still a great \"interactive movie\". The space combat is simple but surprisingly enjoyable. The soundtrack fits the sci-fi theme perfectly.  The zombie mode is great too. It borrows everything from the Black Ops series but adds a lot more too it. The base map, Zombies in Spaceland, is enjoyable both with friends and alone. Great for players who love easter eggs, but casual gamers will probably enjoy it as well.  Multiplayer isn't great. Probably my least favourite CoD multiplayer so far and I've actively played everything since CoD 4. If you're looking for a good multiplayer shooter you're better off getting something like Black Ops 3. All the immersion from the campaign is completely absent in multiplayer. Generic maps, gunplay isn't great, lots of cheesy weapons & tactics and a large cheating problem. Playerbase isn't active.  Don't be held back by DLC or micro-transactions. The Season Pass is only valuable if you like zombies, and you're actually able to get most weapons in multiplayer by just playing the game.   I would personally recommend it on sale for the zombies & campaign modes. Multiplayer is not worth it. Hopefully WW2's MP will be better.","hours":122.2,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8}
{"review":"Product received for free  I put in a good few hours during this free weekend into the Multiplayer, even though I went in with very low expectations as it wasn't something that I was particularly interested in, I was pleasantly surprised by what I found. I enjoyed the game, even though it was nothing new gameplay-wise, it was another BO3/AW, but it wasn't bad, even if I myself, despise the futuristic CoD's that seem to be the new -thing- for a franchise that previously was one of my favorites.   The Multiplayer was for the most part pretty balanced, I was able to come into it as a newbie never having played it before and steal beat people who were max rank with Epic Skins and whatnot, most weapons seemed balanced, even if certain weapons such as the AR NV4 and SMG Erad were used a lot more than their competitors for the respective weapon classes, I had no issues using the other SMGs and ARs available without any issues and without feeling like I was an underdog in combat.  The only major complaint that I had, was the fact that the \"skins\" or \"editions\" that they have added into the game made some weapons such as the Erad with one of it's Epic-\"skins\" changed the way the weapon worked, and not in a positive way, it made the gun incredibly overpowered in comparison to the regular version which I would relatively enjoyable both to use and play against.  Overall, pleasantly surprised even if wasn't and still am not a big fan of the futuristic gameplay, and I hope that it goes back to boots-on-the-ground soon.","hours":13.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6153846153846154}
{"review":"Solid campaign, varied missions and gadgets to keep things fresh. Art is pretty nice.  Multiplayer is same as usual","hours":20.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"A great game for 5€.","hours":14.1,"funny_percent":0.8571428571428571,"helpful_percent":0.8571428571428571}
{"review":"Not a huge fan of the COD series mp, I think the run and gun in a shoebox concept is absolute garbage and it's a shame so many mp games have moved in that direction, but I have taken the time to beat the sp capaigns of each series entry as sales pop up on steam. And while I don't think any of the recent entries have been particularly noteworthy; this game included, I am inclinded to leave a favorable review in light of the excessively negative press. And for the most part, the game is actually decently done. Still a dated engine, but the level design isn't bad. There is definitely a sense of scale. Dialogue is well written for the most part. And the conversation flows and doesn't seem forced. Besides one awkward moment where people were laughing at one of Ethan's joke that wasn't particularly funny. Would I go out of my way to recommend Infinite Warfare to my friends? No, absolutely not. In some sense, the outrage is justified. The franchise is done to death. It needs fresh life. This game is certainly not worth full price. I can appreciate the scale of new games and the manpower required, but games are absolutely not worth $80. I still believe profit margins should be reduced. And it's absolutely outrageous that Activision thinks they can charge $50 for COD4 remastered and force you to buy Infinite Warfare to purchase it. Thankfully that was later rectified. But I hear they're charging more for DLC that was included free in the original title. Hopefully that was also addressed. I don't care if it's a remaster, you can't charge full price for a decade old game. Halo gave you 4 games for the price of 1 COD game. The remaster is worth $30 at most and I'm leaning more towards $20.  My review will be mainly focused on the single player campaign of Infinite Warfare. As a fan of Ace Combat and HAWX, the arcade style space combat was a welcome addition. It certainly filled the void where Starwars Battlefront failed *cough* And with the exception of a few scripted events and level sequences, it was not a rail shooter. It was definitely satisfying to see the transition from ground to orbit to docking or forced entry on hostile ships, followed by descending into the bay and moving about the ship. Definitely gave a sense of scale. Especially with the ftl/slipspace travel. Watching the jump from the bridge. The hanger did seem a bit bare though. Given the amount of armor you later see. And knowing there's more than 2 gunships. But all the detail, did add to the immursion. Story delivery-wise, the campaign seemed to jump around too much, with the side missions giving too much freedom to play them in any order. One second you get this sense or urgency of an impending invasion, the next you can choose to protect a salvage run rather than defend your home planet.... That feels unnatural and runs the immersion. On earth, I defintiely got a 2142 vibe every time I saw a Titan.. err Destoryer in low orbit. Gameplay mechanics like avoiding the burning sun, or popping a door slowly or kicking it in were thoughtful. Turning robots on humans seems a bit repetitive. New material please. The boosters..... those need to go. I still keep my boots firmly planted on the ground despite the boosters. It will always feel forced and ridiculous performing wall runs. And boosts should be saved solely for landing high jumps with minimal impact. That's minor, and I can appreciate the vaulting system in place.  On the other hand, some things did seriously irritate me... the entire concept of the SDF hating freedom and hating the people of earth seems a bit ridiculous. The quotes when you die especially.. It's not believeable. Most wars, however ridiculous, e.g. religion, are fought by people who fight and believe in something... people tend to be rational, even if misguided. The idea that a group would hate freedom is implausible.. The SDF are fighting for independence, they want FREEDOM. Quotes saying they hate freedom are a bit ridiculous. The delivery was off. And I really don't see someone so young being an admiral and leading such a large movement. Especially someone with such lack of emotional discipline. And on that subject, WHY THE F*** IS A LIEUTENANT NOW A COMMANDER. I understand 95% of the fleet was wiped out, but before then the lieutenant and admiral were in contact. An admitral wouldn't even acknowldege a lieutenant in the military. A kid straight out of academy or university would be granted the rank of lieutenant.. And why was a private first class leading the marines after the Sgt. died?! Am I missing something.. a PFC is the lowest rank of all. Anyone flying in the airforce/navy would likely be a major or a colonel. The choice of navy did seem more fitting than air force, given the concept of battleships. Back to the enemy forces, the entire SDF seemed void of personality. And there was a total lack of effort on the voice department. Unless I'm fighting the 501st again. The same voice over and over.. really destracted from the experience. AND FOR THE LOVE OF GOD WHAT THE F*** IS WRONG WITH THE CUTSCENES. Cutscenes were horrifically laggy... I have a 1080ti, 6700k, 16GB DDR4, 1TB SSD, etc. THis should not be happening in a released product, nevermind one that's been out on the market for over a year. You can't expect me to turn down cache or shadows with $6000 of the best hardware on the market. Back to characters, The UNSA characters are more memorable than the SDF, but I'll still forget them, just not Ethan <3 and as usual everyone dies and you feel horrible at the end. gg COD. At least the developers suceeded at delivering a powerful ending. It's an interesting story, but at this point I feel the entire franchise is stale, living off of bad multi-player. The campaigns are far too short. There isn't enough content for the price being asked. Don't buy this game unless you want a quick thrill and have cash to burn. Otherwise, go buy playerunknown's battleground, killing floor 2, payday 2. There's plenty of other franchies with more to offer. This is not a game where you're going to get $1/hr out of. More like $10/hr.","hours":9.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7272727272727273}
{"review":"I liked the campaign. Maps are beautiful.","hours":9.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7272727272727273}
{"review":"its no modern warfare but good never the less","hours":156.4,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"Infinite Warfare would get high praise for it's campaign if it had a different name. It's the sci-fi space game the internet has been waiting for years and years. Call of Duty really outdid itself here!  If you're like me and don't care about the multiplayer then get the game on a sale. It's definitely not worth paying 49.99 or 59.99 for a 9h long singleplayer campaign.  Story  You play as Nick Reyes, a Special Operations pilot. Earth relies on colonies established elsewhere in the Solar System in order to mine planets and asteroids for resources. Mars forces, known as Settlement Defense Front (SDF) attacks Earth with only one goal in mind: Genocide. The SDF's flagship, the Olympus Mons, destroys almost the entire Earths fleet before it is forced to retreat, leaving only two operational UNSA ships: Retribution and Tigris.  Captain of Retribution is found KIA after the attack and so you get promoted as the new captain of the ship. It is now your duty to lead the UNSA forces into what seems a suicide mission to save Earth.  Gameplay  Infinite Warfare is more boots on the ground than the last two titles. You can still wallrun and double jump. However there's only a few instances where you really need to use those skills.  As the captain of Retribution you have access to the \"star map\". I don't remember what the actual name of the table was. It's similar to what we had in Mass Effect 2. You walk up to this huge table, the entire Solar System opens up and you choose your mission. Yes, there are side quests in this game. Granted there's not many but they're all pretty unique and cool. You can dogfight through asteroid fields, go on stealth missions and just run 'n' gun. Dogfighting with space fighters in asteroid fields...You read that right!  You can also choose your loadout before each mission. You are free to choose from many primary and secondary weapons. Choose their attachments. Choose your space fighters upgrades and stickers for a nicer visual effect. Why not, right? Other than that it's you classic CoD gameplay. Run, take cover, shoot.  Performance and Stuff  The game is actually quite well optimised. Definitely a better job done on this game than on Blops 3 or Ghosts. It looks beautiful. Some planets look downright stunning and I'm happy to say that I didn't experience any bugs.  Voice acting is at top notch quality as well. Every single character is very well voice acted and animated. Listening to Omar and Ethan (my two favourates) was just a joy.  Is it worth the full price? Only if you plan to spend a lot of time in the multiplayer or play zombies with friends. The campaign is obviously the strong point of this title but it's not worth spending that much money on a rather linear singleplayer campaign.   The only reason this game gets hate is because it's a CoD game. Change the name and people would praise the campaign.","hours":10.1,"funny_percent":0.030303030303030304,"helpful_percent":0.5303030303030303}
{"review":"This game received a lot of hate the moment it was announced. Sadly a lot of it was cause people wanted to be apart of the club so jumped into the hate wagon. It is indeed funny seeing the same person say it's going to be garbage and then here come November 4th, they're playing...   Campaign  The campaign was a very amazing and was the best I've played in a long time. It gives a future feel but it feels real...for example, if our would was in the future, this is would it would feel like. Where as in Black Ops 3, it was all future based but it felt un-real. The story behind it all was just put together very well. You can tell the Modern Warfare story writers were behind it, haven't seen a good story since MW3.    Graphics  The game also received a lot of hate due to it's graphics. Sure, they aren't as great as Battlefield but it is still very enjoyable. With the right tweaks, you can make it look beautiful.    Multiplayer  When I first played IW's Multiplayer, I honestly hated it. The whole time I was comparing it to Black Ops 3 but after I got this through my head, \"Infinite Warfare isn't meant to be Black Ops 3, if it was all CoDs would be even more of the same\". After that, I was like \"okay, fine I'll keep with it\". Sure enough, after a few hours of gameplay I am starting to enjoy it. It defiantly takes time to switch over, but once you do it is a lot of fun.   Movement System  In my own opinion, the best way to describe it is a mix between Black Ops 3, Advanced Warfare and a touch of Modern Warfare 2. The sliding is pretty cool, jumping feels pretty light and diligent.    Zombies  Zombies is exactly how I predicted. Not as cool as Treyarch's zombies. Which I have to admit, TA has it mastered. But IW's zombies is still fun but it just feels kind of dumb. I was never expecting much of it to begin with, but my opinion could change with newer zombie maps to come.   Performance  I have had no issues what so ever. I'm running on a i7-6700K, MSI 1070, and 16GB RAM. Granted, those are wicked specs but I even tested on a Lenovo laptop with i7-4710HQ @ 2.5GHz / GTX 860M / 8GB RAM and it runs flawless on medium-high settings...50-60fps. So people who say it's optimized bad are most likely wrong and their issues have something to do with their computer. Now I am not saying it's all of their fault, cause there are some issues that Activision needs to fix such as some mouse lag, crashes, freezes, etc. But in my very own honest opinion...something on their computer is causing the issue.   Modern Warfare Remaster  To sum it up it is exactly the same as CoD4 but with newer graphics. Still a great game to play the 100th time, so for sure grab it if you're going to purchase Infinite Warfare. So if you loved CoD4, you'll love this even more.   With all of that said, the Infinite Warfare Campaign is incredible, Multiplayer is good but give it time to sink in, and zombies is fun but also lame. I still recommend it but keep in mind there are some issues that have to be fixed, if you're nervous perhaps wait to December for it to be patched up and working better for some people. Also don’t believe all of the reviews, most of them are based off of someone’s 30 minute gameplay.","hours":15.4,"funny_percent":0.02727272727272727,"helpful_percent":0.5363636363636364}
{"review":"The story is absolutely great, a lot of thought and love was put into it. I just fininshed my second playthrough. All other aspects of the game, however, are bad - I would stay away from multiplayer entirely.","hours":20.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"its veeerryy niice","hours":16.8,"funny_percent":0.42857142857142855,"helpful_percent":0.7142857142857143}
{"review":"I dont know why all the hate, that kept me from buying the game, but i have bought this game on sale and wow one word, awesome!   P.S: People with all the negative comments can ♥♥♥♥ right off!!!!","hours":19.1,"funny_percent":0.14285714285714285,"helpful_percent":0.7142857142857143}
{"review":"this game has a lot of negative reviews but the truth is it really isnt that bad. it is just like black ops 3 (the jetpack boost jumping being highly hated by everyone in the old cod community really doesnt help this game tho) except the method of obtaining the dupply drop weapons in this game is severely more acceptable. you can get salvage (which is sort of like an in game currency) to build the epic/rare/legendary variants of weapons instead of relying on luck or money. the servers are not very good due to how dead the game is on pc though.","hours":148.6,"funny_percent":0.05384615384615385,"helpful_percent":0.5307692307692308}
{"review":"I play call of Duty games for their single-player, and Infinite Warfare's campaign is amazing. The best CoD campaign in years, in my opinion. We have a solid military science fiction story here. I actually came to care about its characters and setting (Nora Salter stands right beside Soap and Price as one of the most badass characters in the entire franchise), and the Retribution is an awesome ship. The mission on Titan is also one of the best the series has ever seen.  GO RET !!!!! GO TIGRIS !!!!!","hours":117,"funny_percent":0.125,"helpful_percent":0.625}
{"review":"It is very strange, even for my self to admit, that I do enjoy this COD installment.  I was not a fan of all latest installments and my big experience on this franchise ended with MW3 series. I did gave some shots on futuristic CODs SP experiences prior to IW, but personally I do like this one the most. New outer space setting is really well made with good looking grafics and stable high fps! Reasonable story plot, zero-gravity and hazardous environments, robot hacking, open space with fancy grapling-hook, fighter dogfights, full Solar system theme and Kit \"Jon Snow\" Harington. Although it is not game changing or essential shooter, but definately well made one with really enjoyable campaign.  I really do enjoy fast paced purified MP, which contains all previously gathered good experiences.  Zombies co-op is addictive and fun as always! In my humble opinion best COD Zombies so far and I do like this funny retro horror movie theme! Well made big map (hope upcoming ones will be such as well) with so much easter eggs, z-traps and awesome mini carnival games. Just pack a punc and you are good to go for the highest scores!  Also, Modern Warfare Remastered is a brilliant remake of the modern classics, which altered existing grounds and established new standards for whole FPS genre.  Infinity Ward keep on doing great job!  As for FPS I give 9/10, as for COD installment strong 8/10","hours":110.3,"funny_percent":0.041666666666666664,"helpful_percent":0.5833333333333334}
{"review":"Don't just disagree with this review because it's positive. I know many people do that. It's now how reviews are meant to be handled.  This game seems to have entered a Catch 22. It doesn't have many players because of the negative reviews, but it has negative reviews because of the lack of players.  The game itself is solid. The campaign is amazing and really fun.  Multiplayer isn't superb, but the movement is a step up from Black Ops 3 in my opinion.  The weapons sound like they pack a punch and feel a lot better than the ones in Black Ops 3, which quite frankly felt like paper weighted guns with no proper punch. I'd recommend you pick it up and play it. I've nearly put 100 hours into it and I've really enjoyed it a lot more than Black Ops 3 as it has a more of a darker scheme to it and less clowny and colourful than the previous CoD was.","hours":129.2,"funny_percent":0.07272727272727272,"helpful_percent":0.5454545454545454}
{"review":"Full disclaimer: I'm not a Call of Duty fan and I never have been, but this game is in a Sci-Fi setting with transitions from ground based FPS combat to Space Flight combat, which is what caught my attention. I'm not interested in multiplayer and I am not concerned with pvp or zombies. So, I don't really have an opinion about those aspects of the game. I picked this up on sale.  I'm loving it. I'm only playing through the campaign, though. It's like Michael Bay Explosion Porn with robots, spaceships, and guns. It looks good and it's just fun. I definitely think it's worth the $40 I spent on it. I'm not under any illusion that it will be something I'm still playing a month from now, but it's good for what it is.  The voice acting is good. The graphics are nice, a little resource intensive though for my aging system, but nothing to keep me from enjoying it. The space combat is a bit arcade-y, but the controls are intuitive and easy to use. Not quite as involved as Elite: Dangerous, but it's still fun.   It still runs pretty well almost on max-settings. My computer is about 2 years old this year, so take that for what you will.  It will be a nice filler of a Pop-corn Flick type of game while we wait for the release of Star Citizen.","hours":13.9,"funny_percent":0.05172413793103448,"helpful_percent":0.5258620689655172}
{"review":"I don't like to listen to people that want to tell us which games are good or bad. I liked the game but seriously wtf does the camera really have to shake 24/7 in this game?? :C I had to take pauses because I felt like I have to puke after every mission wtf","hours":9.1,"funny_percent":0.08333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.5833333333333334}
{"review":"*** Review for SINGLE PLAYER game ***  I liked this game! The story, characters, and gameplay. Loved \"Ethan\" (E3N) especially.  It held appeal because of the game's incorporation of \"values\". For instance, the marines(?) commander's viewpoint toward Ethan changing over time. The hatred for the people of Earth on the part of the Martian humans, and their collective, communal drive toward expansion and dominance via war ... it being their societal ethic. Made me happy to bring 'em crashing to ground! :D  The \"Klingon in me\" was glad to see sacrifical deaths of heroes. Nothing new in that with CoD instalments, heroes going down in battle. But These sorts of things, for me, make satisfying endings to stories.  I found it both an interesting and a good addition to the CoD franchise to have the side missions to different parts of the solar system. Missions to assault fleets or facilities using space fighter-craft or as ground assaults. They added more content to the single-player experience. I played them all through the first time. However, they are optional ... at least in subsequent plays through. I don't know if the \"chance of mission success\" figure for each side-mission had any bearing upon the difficulty of the main game's ending. When I had my second play-through, I don't think I did any side missions.  The game controls seemed typical and thus natural and easy. The character motion/animation was (imo) good. Two-stage negotiation of obstacles such as walls with NPCs is probably fairly standard, I guess, being a bit of a cut-scene thing. ** There's a game called \"Warface\", a free-to-play multiplayer FPS that uses two players to perform such two-stage manoevers! First to boost one up, the second to pull the booster up. Kudos to the Warface devs! :D **  There was a satisfying variety of environments. Most notable for me was probably the darkness caused by dust/smoke during one stage of the attack on Earth.  Heaps of weaps to pick up. Customise your loadout for each mission if you want.  *** The bad ... ***  There was crashing ... and it wasn't just a few times. I think it was mainly an issue with my PC setup though. *Very* unimpressed with my GFX card. It's been crashing for everything. Most play was during the summer (southern hemisphere), so cooling issues really came into play. Aimed some fans into my open PC case. That *largely* resolved the issues. I used a Gigabyte R390. It was capable of displaying full HD but seemed unstable. However, I had removed the OC Guru s/w and I think the result was that the fans weren't operating optimally because the OS didn't know the metrics. My mistake.  *** Summation ***  I liked it. Only played it through twice though. This is typical for me on SP FPS's because, unlike action-RPGs (FPRPGs/RPS), they don't have the same depth of character customisation that encourages \"a different approach\".","hours":536.2,"funny_percent":0.6666666666666666,"helpful_percent":1}
{"review":"People hate the game because it is Space aged and Not like the originals, honestly, I love it. If you arent into boosting around and wall walking while shooting. dont buy it. I however enjoy it.","hours":7.8,"funny_percent":0.17391304347826086,"helpful_percent":0.5652173913043478}
{"review":"Product received for free  i dont why this game gets hate just watch merkmusics video on youtube its not that bad but i definitley think its the worst one in my opinion for multiple reasons that doesnt mean that its not really fun","hours":9.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6666666666666666}