{"funny_percent":0.037037037037037035,"helpful_percent":0.9104560058903033,"review":"Remark prior to reading: - I do not care for the hype- nor the hate-train. I judge as I usually judge: based on nothing but my own opinion.  I didn't pre-order and kept my distance from this one until my favourite Reviewer (Gamestar) finally convinced me, and I'm with them 100%.  I really liked \"Shadows of Mordor\" except his many shortcomings. And I'm not even a big Tolkien or Lord of the Rings-Fan. So I'm speaking purely gameplay-wise. But Mordor left me \"meh!\" after like 10 hours. Those 10 hours were great, but after that it just went boring and repetitive.  The usual problem of the usual Ubisoft-\"Formula\" of totally uninspired \"map-clearing\".  But with \"Shadows of War\" they really removed those shortcomings. Mostly. I would have bet they relied on former success and just go for a quick cash-grab. Every Meter (or foot) you'd take, there's something to do. And most often not just for the sake of having something to do, but for skill-points,  special skills or story or just moneyyyzzz. And \"recruiting\" Captains to join your army, assigning them jobs, helping them complete missions, slowly raising your force to wage war in a region and all that is really motivating. And overall a damn fun to do!  But beside all the shining glory there's an UGH! behind it: Loot-Boxes. Yes. Sucks. They should be quartered, hanged and burned for that. But who can blame them. I guess those boxes alone are flushing at least a Million bucks into their cash-registers. So who wouldn't tread that path? (Except CD Project Red who simply did it with pure excellence) *BUT* they are really not needed if you enjoy the game for the gameplay and not just for rushing through the story. The \"Endgame\" will be hidden behind a \"grind\" (which is good if you actually enjoy the game, or else...why play it?) or a paywall. Legendary Orks will help, yes. But finding them is the thrill. Just buying them. Meh. Probably gets boring very fast. Normal loot-boxes with items or Orks up to Epic (one level below Legendary) are buyable with ingame-currency which is not hard to come by. And if you're OK with that, you can even cheat your money and edit your Orks. IF you are ok with that and are in a rush.   (I only fear that these not-really-super-needed-loot-boxes are just slowly a test for our stupidity and will increase in necessity with every game. Let's hope not)   (!) SIDE-NOTE: If you really don't want loot-boxes or any online-content at all in your SINGLE-PLAYER-game, then simply decline the TOS the FIRST(!) time you start the game (it's bound to your account and you cannot change it later!). You then have the total and complete single-player-experience. No boxes, no revenges, no invasions.   The good (what to love): Something to do whereever you go. And on top of it are weekly challenges and Vendettas (IF you accept the TOS) This game is flooded, literally, with Orks. Rarely you just see a handful. There are TONS OF THEM.  Many skills with many modifiers to pick. Some hidden behind a level, some behind a quest, some behind collectibles. Collectibles are actually useful to collect and provide nice boni. Not just to stretch time. Much options in the menu. Tweak the game to your rig. Even got adaptive resolution scaling to provide constant FPS at the cost of resolution. GREAT! Well thought out keyboard-usage and fitting on-screen-helps/tips. With so many abilities it's nice to be regularly reminded of them and HOW to use them with the few given keys. Dominating Orks? Creating your hidden army before raiding a camp and then with one button making them all your minions at once? Awesome! The new Nemesis-System and overall rework of the whole Army-system is great. Really well done. Graphically more than adequate and nice-looking if you care for that. Every region has its own unique look. In addition to the wolf-thingies and the troll-thingies you can now ride dragon-thingies. And they even have some special attacks and skills. Yay! Loading-times are acceptable. Once you're in a region there's barely any loading-times except for some quests.  Loot! In Mordor it was boring. Here it's a LITTLE bit like Diablo. You constantly find yourself comparing stats and upgrading your stuff. There are even the usual sockets to put crystals in. And the usual 3 x low = 1 time higher, and 3 x higher = etc. Keeps you going! Not enough to do already? Avenge your friends (and strangers) who have been killed by some Ork. Kill those Orks for a Chest to open (with some items in it). The new army-system is really impressive. So goddamn many Orks. And everyone's kinda unique although randomly generated.   The mediocre (not good, not bad, but no show-stopper either): The characters are so bland, stereotype and boring. Except the Spider-Lady, and the Ringsmith maybe. That may be totally just me not being a LOTR-Fan anyway. So probably you'd see that differently. May be just me, but once you get your hand on some Legendary items you just sell everything below. As you can upgrade the legendarys every 10 Levels AND they give set-Boni as well.   The ugly (what to hate, may kill the fun): Loot-boxes. Please. Stop. Noone cares for my opinion, especially not those you decide, but....please. STOP. No targeting. While being nice to have a few keys less it sometimes really pisses you off. Trying to induce one specific treatment to one specific Ork can be a chore. You have no real influence who you'd target/attack. Can sometimes be really frustrating when you've seem to have won the battle but then fail to finish the right target off twice in a row and you get hit from wherever and die.  Those \"speeches\" when you face a new Captain+ or when he's retreating: Cool for the first five times. And then...you can't skip it. It can really grow ANNOYING to wait for their random insults to end.  I know nowadays everything is console-dumbed-down and then just adapted for PC. But, no direct access to inventory nor quests with a key-press. Nope. Go to the main-menu and select it there. WTF?    Recommended?  If you liked Mordor, YES! If you liked Mordor but don't want to invest time to see the end AND don't want to spend money? Nah. IF you liked Mordor and don't care to see the end as long as you're having fun for 10, 20, 30 or more hours? Sure! If you haven't played Mordor but like Action-RPGs with Stealth-mechanics (which you don't HAVE to use) like Dishonored? See above. If you don't like the usual Ubisoft-\"Formula\" of clearing maps: Nah, maybe not.  Just be \"warned\": If you don't LIKE to spend many many hours in a game you enjoy, you will be forced to pay money to see the end, or you just don't. Then again, who cares. The Story isn't THAT interesting anyway.","hours":37.6}
{"funny_percent":0.038461538461538464,"helpful_percent":0.6180221786405511,"review":"When reviewing Shadow of War, we need to take a look at it from 2 sides. One side being with the microtransactions, and one side without it.  We'll start with the obvious first. IF YOU DO NOT LIKE MICROTRANSACTIONS AND IT RUINS GAMES, DO NOT GET THIS. They are present and will get you angry. That being said, nothing is locked behind microtransactions. All gear and followers I have obtained have been acquired through playing the game and getting currency from missions and doing daily challenges. There are 2 forms of money, the Silver Coins which are obtained by doing missions and killing certain enemies, and then there is the gold Coins which is obtained by doing Daily Challenges and through Microtransactions. This game can be enjoyed to the fullest without spending a dime other than the initial purchase. That being said, the game can be ruined by throwing money at your computer screen and having legendary gear popping out at you. You won't find the unfairness in this until end game and only if you're playing online.  Fans of the first one will be please to know that they've only improved upon it. They've improved upon the combat, skills, story, dominating system, and even added features. I haven't enjoyed my self this much in awhile. That being said, there are times where it can get a little repetitive. But the story drives out the time period a lot more and even brings up a character that we saw in the first Lord of the Rings Movies.  If you loved the first one and won't let the Microtransactions ruin your experience, this is a definite buy. If you're new to the series, play the first one first, determine if you enjoy it, then get the second one instead of having to drop $60.   If you don't want to support a company that would put Microtransactions in a Single player game, don't get it. Save your money for something else.   For me, the game was well worth the $60.  SIDENOTE: If you want a full review, give this a like and I can post a super duper long♥♥♥♥♥review that goes over everything added, removed, improved upon, and ruined.","hours":31.9}
{"funny_percent":0.22666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.8995943266174833,"review":"The criticisms are fair: The loot box system is unnecessary, gameplay is only a minor upgrade from the original, and the story is nonsense.  That said, it's unmatched as an orc murdering simulator.","hours":28.7}
{"funny_percent":0.13333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.6311346116606573,"review":"This is a summary of my favorite moment in the game after about 15 hours of gameplay. The full story is about 5 pages long and occured over roughly 4 hours of gameplay, so I'm opting for list format here. Note: A 'Death Threat' draws an orc out of hiding and increases their loot, but levels them up considerably. 'Shaming' lowers their level and makes them easier to recruit/convert to your side. Okay here we go...  1) I recruited an orc assassin named Zugor the Kingslayer 2) I also recruited an olog-hai tank named Az-Adar the Pit Fighter 3) They became blood brothers (super-duper orc best friends) 4) Az-Adar became my favorite fighter ...fast forward to good part... 5) I decide to do an ambush mission for orc xp. 6) The ambush grows out of control (at this point it's me, 3 friendly captains, 3 enemy captains, plus armies) 7) Az-Adar shows up (Yay, help!) 8) Az-Adar betrays me (F**k) 9) Zugor teams up with Az-Adar (Double f**k) 10) I kill Az-Adar, Zugor is now royally ticked off. 11) I defeat and shame Zugor, Zugor flees (battle ends) 12) I send Zugor a death threat 13) Zugor is now Zugor the Unashamed (Legendary stats + a new culty look) 14) Zugor kills me 16) I send Zugor another death threat 17) I defeat and shame Zugor (He flees) 18) I track down and ambush Zugor (with the intent to convert him back) 19) Az-Adar (no longer dead and a legendary badass as well) shows up mid-battle as an undead abomination (Zugor's culty new outfit apparently granted him Dr. Frankenstein powers). 20) I kill Zugor 21) Zombie Az-Adar is now super ticked off and gains crazy health and damage 22) Epic 'Big Boss Battle' fight scene ensues 23) I defeat and shame Zombie Az-Adar 24) Zombie Az-Adar flees, but loses “Iron-Will” (I can mind control him again) 25) I ambush Zombie Az-Adar a final time 26) I recruit Zombie Az-Adar with mind control 27) I use Zombie Az-Adar to take over the entire region and kill everything 28) I promote Zombie Az-Adar to Overlord  TL;DR: Two randomly generated orc NPCs made a better story than the entire campaign.","hours":26.1}
{"funny_percent":0.2555066079295154,"helpful_percent":0.6029490554995302,"review":"Man, this game is a mixed bag. If you’re expecting a game with even a shred of narrative decency, you’ll be sorely disappointed with what is essentially collectable orc Pokemon. The story is a garbage fire, the characters are as compelling as a bowl of lumpy rocks, and the progression system is entirely arbitrary. The real heart of Shadow of War is the orcs; dynamically generated characters who are absolutely bursting with personality. If not for them, Shadow of War would be an unbearable slog of poorly constructed narrative scraps which would make Tolkien roll over in his grave.  Characters and Story  Like I mentioned above, the story is an absolute waste of time. I dreaded every single one of the mandatory and nonsensical story missions. For anyone who missed the last game, Shadow of Mordor ended with the sequel bait of building your army to confront the Dark Lord in Mordor, and this is exactly where Shadow of War picks up. Unfortunately, SoW addresses this mandate in the worst conceivable way.   In order to fight Sauron, Celebrimbor decides to craft a new ring of power. This is alright I guess, though the exact attributes of this ring are never fully discussed. I guess it just does what the normal ring does with the exception of being ‘less evil’. Naturally Talion/Celebrimbor immediately lose the ring to the new sexy shapeshifting Shelob, the giant ♥♥♥♥ing spider from the main Lord of the Rings Trilogy who apparently can magically teleport the wraith of Celebrimbor around for some reason. How can she do this? Who cares - look at those♥♥♥♥♥♥ She yoinks the ring and presumably just stares at it for a while before giving it back to Talion (all you have to do is ask for her to pretty please return it!). This introduction pretty much sets the standard for the rest of the game. Nothing makes any sense, nothing is explained, and there’s absolutely no narrative tension.   I think the following interaction sums up the quality of the story pretty well. It happens just after entering the second act. Talion hears some funky noises coming from the forest and asks whats up. Celebrimbor explains that he’s hearing the forest of Carnan, and that Talion should just ignore it and keep branding orcs. Of course, you immediately head on over-  Celebrimbor: “Yo Talion, don’t mess with the Spirit of Carnan. She’s an ancient protector of the forest who’s already♥♥♥♥♥♥♥♥that orcs are using her pals as firewood. How about you just try and be nice for like 30 seconds.”  Talion: “I bow to no vegetation.”  *Proceeds to chop up non-hostile tree elementals for literally no reason*  This pretty much sums up the Celebrimbor-Talion relationship throughout the whole game. Celebrimbor says something that makes sense, Talion does the exact opposite. It’s as if Talion has the IQ of a piece of french toast (though the french toast probably has more personality). His character truly is insufferable - he’s either droning on about “the people of Gondor” or preaching ♥♥♥♥♥♥ little monologues about “building an army” and saving the world. Absolutely no characterization here; I wish we could have played as wraith dad.   The other good characters are mostly just as bad. There’s an elf lady who does strong independent elf things, a sad soldier from Minas Ithil with abandonment problems, and an African-American gentlemen who just kind of pops in sometimes. Gollum also makes an obligatory appearance for a little while. Development is lacking overall.  Some of the cutscenes are also very poorly done. I remember an instance early on when African-American gentlemen, Talion, and a group of Gondorian soldiers were to ambush a captain near a fighting pit. Besides the whole area being mysteriously devoid of orcs when the area was swarming with them just a few seconds before, the camera work was just awful. You get a close up shot of the captain and right behind him is a dude from Gondor, bow fully strung and aiming at the ambush point. What the heck WB? Things like this are very immersion breaking throughout the game.  Combat and Progression  Basically Assassins Creed on crack. Pretty fun, no complaints here. This game lets you ride drakes.   Skill progression is smooth and and doesn’t require a great deal of effort. I had almost everything unlocked before ending the second act. Their are some fun Celebrimbor lore challenges throughout the world where you relive (?) the wraith's past, but these don’t really give you much advantage other than a few gems and a skill point. There are also collectables dotted throughout the world which let you access lore on Shelob or open certain doors, but these are all optional.   Shadow of War also lets you equip armor and weapons for Talion, but this mostly consists of wearing a piece of gear for a little bit and then chucking it once a better piece pops up. Nothing really memorable here.  The Orcs  This is the main selling point for Shadow of War. Across the board orcs are fantastic. The nemesis system is vastly improved from the first game, allowing you to forge more meaningful stories with your own randomly generated orc buds. It’s a rollercoaster of emotions to watch your favorite brain damaged Olog with a flaming club lose a fight to some skinny dude with an explosive crossbow. The only thing that kept me playing this game is an unstoppable urge to brand all the Pokem- I mean captains in the area and see their quirky personalities. Much has been said about the dreaded fourth act, but if you’re down for branding orcs for an eternity it’s not so bad. Building and conquering fortresses is great, and it's really fun to watch your hard earned orc children blossom into warlords of their own. Generally a great experience in the orc department.  Loot Boxes  They exist, but why would you buy them if the most fun part of the game is collecting orcs? It’s like paying to be sad.   Conclusion  Pick up Shadow of War on sale for 30 bucks in 2018. The orcs are great and the combat is fun, but the narrative hernia is a real bummer. Come for the orcs, stay for the orcs. On the off chance orcs aren’t your jam, don’t buy this game.","hours":18.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9682065503246965,"review":"Not significantly different from Shadows of Mordor. Rather than the \"War\" aspect adding anything big and new, it's really more of a single new mission type in which you capture some points and defeat a Warlord in order to take over a Fortress. There are some neat additions, like new enemy types and mountable dragons. There is gear now, which you aqcuire mainly by killing captains. I've seen many, many people complaining about the micro-transactions, but thus far I have niether opened the market, nor felt in any way that there is a need to do so.  All that said? Shadows of Mordor was a very cool game, and if you liked it, you'll like this sequel too.  edit: The final \"Act\" of this game is nothing more than nearly 20 iterations of the exact same mission type back-to-back. No new side-quests, no storyline. Whoever thought this would be a good idea deserves to be flayed. Despite that, you'll have 30+ hours of good gameplay before you get to the final Act, so my positive recommendation stands.","hours":48.6}
{"funny_percent":0.42857142857142855,"helpful_percent":0.6192369045223801,"review":"sent one of my captains to kill an enemy captain. let's call him captain A I reinforced captain A with captain B it is a tough fight, but I and my captains can do it. suddenly BUM captain B betray me the fight becomes from challenging but manageable into hard as♥♥♥♥♥♥ I already used my last change, so I say \" hey, let's cut my losses\" and order captain A to retreat, no way one of my captains is going to die on my watch. I'm trying to run, but the captain I originally wanted to kill hit me. another \"last chance\" I know I can't bloke this one and preparing to die. WOSH, my bodyguard come in, save my skin and kill the captain. I never was this happy in my life from an NPC. before I understand what happened, captain B come to me, hit me and again \"last chance\" at this point  what going through my head is \"oh well, at least I know one of my captains is loyal\" when WOSH the same bodyguard come saving my skin again, kill the ♥♥♥♥ers captain B and say \"get up soldier, we have enemies to kill\"  I have tears in my eyes the rest five minutes are just me and him killing orcs like there is no tomorrow.  this is the day that an NPC, an orc, a monster become from my bodyguard to my best friend","hours":57.7}
{"funny_percent":0.2857142857142857,"helpful_percent":0.9261569160492061,"review":"Met an orc who was obsessed with me, started fussin gover every detail including my \"hair, eyes, face...\" fastest orc kill of my life.....  EDIT:  All jokes aside I just finished Shadow of War (what I personally define as the ending of the proper game) and have a few more words to say. Out of the 4 acts in the game I enjoyed Acts1-3. From my opinion Act 2 was where the devs put all their magic mojo and Act 3 served as the ending to all that. While some may find the  enjoyable, I for one have no patience with that sort of thing. Whether the devs put it in purely for grinding and lootbox sales I do not know but my word of advice, if you hate grinding once you finish Act 3 them call it finished. Youtube the movie tie-in ending and leave thinking this is a good game. Save youself the fuss and inevitable \"lootbox good, lootbox bad \" argument most internet dwellers will be talking about for the next decade.  All in all I fully enjoyed the game and would recommend it to everyonewho loved SoM and the lotr series!  ps: however i do recommend playing act 4 for the funny uruk dialogues if nothing else, also wringwraith talion = best talion","hours":26.4}
{"funny_percent":0.02553579571363429,"helpful_percent":0.8286997183511131,"review":"In case you want to know about the positives and negatives of the game, instead of just seeing dozens of reviews only mentioning the loot box system, here you go.  Shadow of War is the sequel to 2014's Shadow of Mordor. There is hardly a comparison between the two as this is an incredible upgrade in regards to the original. I 100% the game on PS4 when it came and just played through the campaign on PC as I heard that your nemesis and allies would transfer over.  Let's start with the GOOD:  Almost every aspect of that game has been improved, the graphics are nicer, the storyline and characters are not annoying so far, and practically every area of the game has been sped up and streamlined.  Interogating enemies does not require you to grab them and then wait for the animation to play out, it is now just draining them and the screen to select the captain you want is there.  The skills are phenomenal. Elven Grace will now work on walls as well, and pressing the left thumbstick will give a burst of speed without having to jump over an obstacle. I have had an endless amount of fun combining the slow-time-when-falling bow perk with the double jump to jump off of a tower, snipe a few enemies on the ground, then do a backflip onto a different building and keep running.  The combat system has changed, you build wrath to perform Talion's exections, which stays between fights and does not disappear over time unless you are injured. You also build rage to perform special Celebrimbor moves, where you enter the wraith world and can dispatch enemies with killer arrows and executions. Also added is a heavy attack, called Glaive, which will stun enemies in a circle around you.  The captain strengths and weaknesses are much more involved now, and you can see their strengths without interogating a worm, but not their weaknesses.  Also added is the ability to equip different weapons, armour, and   It is surprisingly optimised (for my build at least, don't have any friends with this game to check theirs) on day one. Maintain more than 60 fps on Ultra quality, except for cutscenes...  Now the not so good:  The game still uses prerendered cutscenes in many places, which is a sin to be honest. I hate when the game suddenly has a massive change in visual quality and the FPS drops because they rendered it at a lower framerate than your computer runs the game. Also dislike seeing Talion with completely different equipment than he had equiped before walking into a door for a cutscene. Just really wish games would stop using them, hopefully soon. (While writing this I saw the 4k Cinematics pack, so I will get that. Still doubt that the framerate will be better.)  The Orc lip synch is not the best, and that is being generous. To be fair, the Orc appearances are so different I can imagine it would be difficult, but since the game zooms in on a captain when he talks to you it is noticeably off.  Last but certainly not least, the loot chests. Oh boy, WB. This is a full priced, singleplayer game that has purchasable item consumables. Always a bad idea.   Fortunately, these crates are entirely pointless and do not aid your gameplay in any way whatsoever. I tried a few and saw that I could easily get better items by running around killing Orcs. Still love how people are saying it is impossible to beat the game without buying them, probably the same people who say it is impossible to beat Contra without the Code, or are .  IN CONCLUSION  If you like LotR and you like the gameplay from the Arkham games or Assassin's Creed, then this is likely a good idea to purchase. Fun, pretty, and interesting. Just do not buy the loot chests. For the love of God please do not buy the loot chests we cannot encourage this. They probably saw how much money Blizzard and RockStar get from purchasables and wanted to be like the big boys. Do not let them.  An edit addendum, for all the comments: No, I have not finished the game. I also didn't buy the crates, where I pre ordered the game from gave me a few legendary crates, which literally an hour of gameplay gave me items vastly superior. I am aware that the final act is supposedly incredibly difficult, but the crates are so pointless I cannot imagine them being of any use in it.  And before any one tries to nag at me for preordering the game, I do it when the pre-order is at least 15% off sale price and I know I'm going to get it anyways. Amazon Prime, my dudes.  An extra addendum: Wow, I didn't want to but I had to delete a few comments. Because you disagree with someone else's comment is no reason to threaten them or be incredibly abusive. Grow up guys, it's a game that had a very unfortunate decision implemented that does not affect the game (which is much better than I was expecting). It was a terrible decision, but it will not affect you in any way, so don't threaten or swear (excessively at least) at each other in the comments, alright?  ","hours":49.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7799154856717216,"review":"Like the one, but better.  20h into the game, I'm currently not feeling the microtransaction. Honestly, if you play online maybe you'l need them, but I'm hoarding money, because I have no use for the chest for now.  I don't agree with the microtransaction being everywhere now, but the game is still pretty good, fun and immersive.  8.5/10","hours":32.1}
{"funny_percent":0.015151515151515152,"helpful_percent":0.6563182236854336,"review":"Don't let the army of keyboard warriors frothing at the mouth about the lootboxes keep you from enjoying a great game. There's a reason the majority of the reviews are very positive and yet all the most helpful rated reviews on the front page are negative. It's because these losers have nothing better to do than go through every review made for the game and upvote all the negative reviews and downvote the positive ones. So many of the negative reviews are outright filled with lies it's honestly just pathetic. They couldn't find anything to actually critique so they just made up some BS about \"terrible performance\" and \"loot boxes that HEAVILY impact gameplay.\"   Let's look at some of their ridiculous claims.  1. Game runs badly. - ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥t Proof that they're lying about performance? I'm running with 8GB of ♥♥♥♥♥♥ RAM and a GTX 960 and a 3ghz CPU from 2010 and I'm getting solid 55 frames on all medium. The cutscenes run far better than the actual game, so the people who claim that cutscenes run badly are either lying or running the game on a straight-up toaster.  2. Super buggy.  I've encountered no bugs/crashes at all. Maybe I'm just lucky, or maybe, just maybe, they're lying to make their negative review seem more reasonable. You can be the judge.  3. Button masher Lmao. If you played the first game you know this is just a flat-out lie. Maybe if you're playing on the easy-easy mode it becomes that way, but otherwise this is just objectively false. On hard mode you die in maybe 4 hits, so you have to constantly worry about your position, taking out high danger orcs first, isolating them from the group, using stealth, picking off orcs before the fight, using the wildlife, etc...  4. Lootboxes Do I like lootboxes? No. Do I waste any money on them? No. Does it affect me in any way whatsoever? No. If you want to get your panties in a bunch about lootboxes ruining gaming, go ahead. No skin off my bones. Just don't put disingenuous and objectively false reviews about a game because you disagree with one of their practices, especially one that has the most ridiculously tiny amount of in-game impact imaginable. This has to be one of the stupidest controversies I've ever seen.  Edit: The trolls are getting smarter, they've invented some new \"complaints\" to justify downvoting the game. Let's address those here.  5. No innovation.  Excuse me? This is a direct sequel. They added everything that people wanted out of the first game, and didn't try to re-invent the wheel. If you liked the first game, this is more of the same, with more stuff to do and some new features. People wanted more use for your orc army, so they added forts, pokemon orc battles, the ability to call them in as bodyguards, etc... People wanted more RPG stuff so they added more loot options. People wanted an actual endgame instead of just a ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥t QTE battle so they added a really long psuedo-endless mode that now people are ♥♥♥♥♥ing about being too long. Watch out what you wish for because you just might get it. They did what people asked them to do and now they're being criticized for not, idk, making the best game of all time? The question here isn't \"is the game perfect\" it's \"is the game worth buying\" and the answer is yes, if you liked the first one, you'll like this one.  6. GRIND I have no idea what the ♥♥♥♥ these people are talking about. I know for a FACT that if your goal is to beat the first 3 acts before the \"endless\" mode, it will take you maybe 15-20 hours on the hardest difficulty. Most of that time is not spent \"grinding\" by which I can only assume they mean killing the orc captains and doing the encounter missions, (which is 90% of what most of us did in the first game anyways, right?) If you don't give two ♥♥♥♥♥ and you just want to finish the main story, you can breeze through it by running from mission to mission and the game will pretty much hold your hand all the way to the fortress assault. Yeah the longer you spend building up your army and leveling up, the easier the game is going to be, but that doesn't mean it's some kind of artifical difficutly wall the prevents you from doing it quickly if you're good. This argument is literally incoherent. If you feel like the game is too hard because it forces you to have too many strong orcs to successfully complete the fort battle, LOWER THE DIFFICULTY. And yet there are other people who complain that somehow the game is 1. a grind and 2. too easy. If the game is so damn easy, then why would you have to grind? There's no artifical barrier between you and the for assault besides just having the minimum number of orcs to attack it which is like 2-4.","hours":31.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.77904843012281,"review":"If you like the first part you'll love this one. Its bigger and better (Award Review kek)","hours":37.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6250273818547872,"review":"I played this game for around 100 hours on my Brother account, This will Be GOTY","hours":0.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7734462891028752,"review":"First time ever reviewing a game. Listen to me. I bought the game the day it released. Dont listen to any negative review about; \"I'm disapointed because there is microtransactions\" sh*t. Yes, you CAN if you WANT to buy loot cases to build an army, if you have the money and feel like it. I should say, you can earn IN GAME CURRENCTY just by playing side quests and missions to get crates if you FEEL like it. Furthor more you can unlock everything just by playing the game.  This is a great game, stunning visuals, GREAT gameplay and overall it has the NEMISIS SYSTEM!! if you want to make friends, enemies or even \"Frienemies\" its the game to go for. Would recommend this for anyone looking for a AAA game.","hours":19.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8819822984191571,"review":"Shadow of Mordor 2.0  Don't let the whole ordeal about the loot boxes discourage you. You can get plenty of mirian throughout your whole playthrough to buy silver war chests and loot chests if you so desire. Now that they have new add ons with the update, it makes the game more worthwhile playing. The endless siege mode gives the game replay value and the new slaughter tribe gives more variety to the orcs.  In my case, I already completed the game and filled all the slots with dominated orc captains in all the strongholds before the update came, so the game will remove a few of your lesser orc captains with new slaughter tribe orcs. All in all, the game is just what I expected: an expanded Shadow of Mordor game with an improved nemesis system, orcs with more personality, and multiplayer features.","hours":101}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7780397329221507,"review":"Okay, this game has seen a lot of controversy over lock boxes and rightfully so....HOWEVER, you will never have to buy any if you are someone who understands the combat mechanics and how the nemesis system works. In-game currency drops all the time to open the Silver chests which always give you a level appropriate item or Orc. There are items with perks that increase the currency drop amount by so much that you literally can have enough to last you well past end-game. So with that being said, here are the pros and cons from what I experienced.  PROS: Nemesis system has vastly improved since the last game. The previous game never had an end-game experience but with this new Nemesis system, you definitely don't feel dulled down. The AI has improved greatly and with the bonuses of random Ambushes, Betrayals, and Blood-Brother betrayals. I notice a lot of people getting upset on the discussion board about the Betrayals but you absolutely need to look at the Army page and gain Intel to see if the Orc you are going to kill is related to one of your own. They can be dealt with my sending an Orc to kill him(make sure not to even touch the blood-brother with your character).  The Fortress system is incredible and a absolute gore-feast of violence and mayhem. Planning attacks or defending will take you awhile and it's worth it to take your time to make sure you are prepared for each attack or defense. I have spent several hours enjoying dominating and training Orcs for the ultimate defense.  Voice acting and Orc uniqueness is superb. There is so much more variety of Orc trash-talk and speeches than the previous game. Nothing is more satisfying or sometimes frustrating is when you killed an Orc more than twice and still comes back to Ambush you...it makes for intense moments if you are already fighting another Captain.  Combat is much more strategic than the first game which for those who are novice at fighting, it would probably infuriate them. If people leave a bad review because they were frustrated over how many times they are dying, then the game probably isn't for them. It isn't considered a casual game like Assassin's Creed is. It can be much more complex which is a relief to some who like challenges.  Story mode is good and bad in some areas but that is all open to opinion and debate. I am sure Tolkien would be rolling in his grave but it doesn't mean we can't enjoy some canon and non-canon material. The Orc characters you meet will most likely appeal more than the main story. I'd say the story is not as good as the first game but still doesn't impact the better interactions with Orcs.  Loot is everywhere. Farming is easy and getting geared up doesn't take a whole lot of time. With the currency you earn in the game, you can open up Silver chests for more options. Epics are usually better than Legendary weapons so that's actually a good thing.  CONS: Introducing microtransactions into single player AAA game is a sin but unfortunately commonplace now. Although you really ever need to spend money in this game, the progression of higher level Orcs later that are 10+ levels higher than you might entice the casual player into dumping cash into the game. DON'T DO IT! Your gear will be obsolete later on when you hit max level so it's pointless to spend money on lockboxes early on or even at the end.  Pre-order bonuses absolutely sucked. The weapons you get last you only 5 levels before they come obsolete and if you aren't careful, you might forget the Orcs you got and they waste away or end up getting killed. I found better Orcs than the pre-order bonuses.  Season pass is $39.99? That is ridiculous. For that amount they better add an absurd amount of content besides random storylines. New Orc tribes sounds great in practice but getting more use out of your Army is essential in the end-game.  Fighter pit woes: The fighter pit seemed to have been put in at the last second by the devs because it almost unbearable at times to watch. Throwing your Orc in the ring to fight another only for him to never use his powerful abilities is just depressing. They should have matched the AI with how Orcs respond to YOU in battle. The fighting pits can be fun, however, a little tip is to make sure your Orc has reinforcements because he may go off and fight the grunts instead of the Captain he is facing.  No real connection to Orcs outside the storyline sucks. You could have dominated an Orc at level 11 and then got him to 50+ then promote him to Overlord of a Fort....but no dialogue or interactions are ever present. With the amount of time you invest in training and preparing your Orcs, you feel oddly attached to them almost like a Pokemon. They just sit on the thrones never to be seen again unless you demote them from Overlord to bodyguard which in some cases can cause them to turn on you. They don't like to be demoted, even if it's for their benefit and leveling up.   Shaming your favorite Orc can have some unfortunate consequences. If you happened to get betrayed by your buddy, you can kill him or Shame him until he loses his \"Iron Will\" perk which allows you to recruit him back. Sometimes he can become deranged and then you lose all of his cool dialogue during battles.   Legendary loot is limited to a handful of set items and a lot of them are mostly useless unless you want to go for some bizarre builds. They need to fix the amount of Legendary items and give more options.  Overall the game is an absolute bash and especially if you played the first game and seeing your nemesis Orcs return to the new one. I am glad they expanded on the Nemesis system by allowing more usefulness on your Orcs but still would like to see more use on the ones you put in charge of your Fortresses. Despite some minor issues with the story and the fact that your Fortress doesn't offer anything else but to house your Orcs, I still love the game.  My personal rating is 8/10","hours":107.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9197941277371386,"review":"Game is a improvement from its predecessor in almost every way.  - Story (Not as personal a story, but characters are more interesting to me, and I'm more interested to see what happens next than i was in Shadow of Mordor)  - Mission variety (This is helped by the region variety, but in general, the setpieces have been very cool and fun to engage in)  - Orcs (Enhanced by new nemesis system, and new orc classes [Ologs, assassins, tricksters, and much more], they give the game its personality and sandbox fun)  - Nemesis system (Even more fleshed out, with double and triple crossers in the orc armies, fortress heirarchies and brotherhood and traiter relations ships within the orc ranks without your input, it's so fun to engage in their ecosystem)  - Character Customization (Much more armor and weapon skins [With stats] that give a decent sense of progression to how powerful talion's gear is)  - Scale (more than double the regions that SoM had, and a more \"epic\" feeling to the whole game. The battles are gigantic at times and become even more chaotic when random encountrers from the beasts of mordor join the skirmishes. Number of orcs on screen at a time seems ridiculous.)  - Side missions (better variety and progression tied with side activitiesd so far, less boring than just \"collect all the things [though there is still some of that])  - Skill tree (One of the most rewarding skill trees I've ever seen in an action game. Almost every single skill seems valuable and makes it hard to make decisions at times)  - Abilities fun and variety (see above)  - Different Difficulty modes (Hard mode makes for the best Nemesis system experience, in my opinion)  - Photo mode (more freedom and features than predecessor's photo mode. I think it also supports Nvidia Ansel if you prefer that)  -Options menu is huge with so many HUD settings, good graphics menu, and extensive PC-specific benchmarking info based on hardware.  --------There are a couple problems so far though.--------  -Graphics are not great sometimes. (Textures can be muddy, and environments look flat occasionally, but otherwise artstyle is well-done and game runs well)  - Most cinematics are pre-rendered. (Meaning character customization does not appear in many cutscenes)  - Microtransaction store. Unnecessary and poiuntless. You get showered with loot and currency in the game at a satisfying rate. Legendary Orcs and items have been showing up in my game even though they have been reported to only be available in paid loot boxes. Hell, I've even gotten Legendary orcs in loot boxes in the game without paying a penny. The media is right to be angry at their inclusion, but the gamePLAY and progression feels no worse for it.  -----------------------------  If you enjoyed the first game. This is an excellent sequel thus far.","hours":52.7}
{"funny_percent":0.024390243902439025,"helpful_percent":0.7158458681487494,"review":"While I can recommend this game for its gameplay, I beg anyone who buys to NOT buy into the war chests. Only by not feeding them money from microtransaction sales can we show them we wont stand for it","hours":57.5}
{"funny_percent":0.13559322033898305,"helpful_percent":0.9462904041588598,"review":"How to play Shadow of War: 1. Start main quest line 2. Get distracted building your army of captains and warchiefs for 80 hours. 3. Spend thousands of in game currency on getting random captains. 4. Get betrayed a few times and realize your skill at picking powerful captains and upgrading them is the most fun you've had on Steam in years. 5. Spend zero on lootboxes and wade into the review section of SOW. 6. Post a review so you can go back to stacking your camp.  BUY THIS GAME! GAME OF THE YEAR! DEEP AND REPLAYABLE!  10/10 Would get betrayed again!","hours":109.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6123533945396057,"review":"UPD: I finished the game and seriously the gameplay is amazing and this game didn't diserve all the hate that it's got for the microtransactions because these are not needed at all. I finished the game on Nemesis difficulty (highest one) without having any need in any of the lootboxes that I had. I had a ton of legendary gear and legendary followers.  Speaking about the \"secret ending\": basically to get it you need to take part in sieges (not online), to be exact in 10 stages of sieges which are 3 times 1 siege, 3 times 2 sieges , 3 times 3 sieges and 1 time 4 sieges which are 22 sieges in total. I could say that doing these 22 times in a row one after another in one evening got a tiny bit annoying (its the only thing that I did in chapter 4 because I finished all the sidequests and found all the collecrables). But seeing the ending was worth it because it left a pleasant feel after I watched it and honestly after seeing the ending I felt a bit sorry that I've beaten the game. Once story DLC comes out I'll gladly play it because like Shadow Of Mordor this game is totally fun and you just can't get enough of it. And in case if you are afraid that lootboxes will be a paywall for a \"true\" ending - don't be. Like I said I didn't even open a ton of boxes that I had because I didn't feel any need in these. At some point you will have more orcs that you can count, legendary or not. But honestly I didn't see that much difference between normal/epic/legendary orcs. They all have weaknesses and strengths and it is always about abusing them. Or dominating all their bodyguards for them to kill their former masters while you hide away because they can one-shot you and you are stressed enough already. P.S. Speaking about \"grinding\" that some of you crybabies were afraid of just as much as \"paywall\" on the game ending - it took me 2 or 3 hours to get the \"true\" ending. Which is not much of a secret or true or bonus or whatever ending so to speak. Game leaves you at chapter 4 after a short video (at the end of chapter 3) and tells you to defend your forts and after you do it a bunch of times (like I said before) you get the endgame cinematic which finishes the story of Thalion.  Original review:  People complain about grinding. But it is the game in which it's fun to simply go to a random direction and kill everything you see on your way. So while you enjoy doing so you won't even bother with the word grind.  People complain about microtransactions, saying that they are forced onto you if you want the \"true ending\" and \"endgame\". But \"true ending\" is a bonus for playing the endgame which you might do because you like killing orcs. Most of people who complain about micotransactions ruining the game won't even bother to finish the story, which is needed for the \"endgame\" (that's the whole point of the word endgame). When it comes to story progress you would NEVER ever think \"Boi I need to buy a lootbox to progress\" or \"I should invest more into the game to continue playing the story quests\".  SoW is a great game which expands on SoM in every aspect. Nemesis system 2.0 is totally fun and feels personal. Combat is tiny little bit reworked compared to the first game - no more oneshot executions after 5 hit combos, now you need to fill up a special bar for it to happen. SoW now has a skill trees and an actual space for character builds. Loot with set bonuses, gear objectives and even sockets. There are daily quests and objectives, online vendetta missions (like in first game) and online siege missions too. Plus there is a sweet little \"Photographic mod\" which allows you to pause the game and fly around in a freecam taking screenshots with no UI.  In other words if you loved the first game you will love the second. The hate bandwagon this game has is just about people being intimidated by the big price and optional microtransactions, really. People always do that. For example look at how much of a negative impact and downvote spree Bethesda had with Skyrim (back in the day) and Fallout 4 (recently) ingame mod markets and it doesn't make any of these two games bad.","hours":56.7}
{"funny_percent":1.6666666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.8022838909905254,"review":"Now I understand how Julius Caesar felt when he got betrayed  Et Tu, Dugz the Tower?","hours":82.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6223488065421617,"review":"best game i played","hours":40.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.870135718584164,"review":"This game has had its fair share of negative speech. From my perspective, this game is alot like the first one, which is a very good thing, since most players loved the first one. It keeps alot of the most amazing things from the first game, while also adding alot that people wanted to have in the first game.  I whole heartedly recommend this game, even with the existance of loot boxes in it, I still found it to be an amazing experience, and plan to relive it at least once!","hours":57.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.719994672707822,"review":"Pretty decent game. Fun action, interesting story, but a bit repetitive and easy.   Some may not like the story for how different it is compared to normal LOTR, but I've always been pretty ok with a new version of something, as it makes the experience rather fresh.  This is pretty much exactly the same as Shadow Of Mordor, gameplay-wise, but you can spot a few new features. It's also just as easy as the first, proving no challenge to a competitive player like myself.   After you come across the big plot twist in the storyline, you're then expected to just grind it up with repetitive missions, so at that point the game gets quite dull. Took me almost 60 hours to get there though so I'd say it was worth it.  So hey, if you really enjoyed the first game, then you should certainly play this one.","hours":60.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6842329821712159,"review":"It's truly the best single game I have ever played!!!  I didn't interested in The Lord of the Rings before, but now everything has been changed. I really fell in love with the middle earth. The plots in this game is soooooooo damn good! It's really surprised me, because plot is soul of a game and they did it.  I didn't feel bored when I play it long time because the plots are strong and every enemy looks like different, they all got different equipments like armors, helmets or something, and they even got different interesting names with their own matched voices. I hope I can play next one ASAP.","hours":22.6}
{"funny_percent":0.38461538461538464,"helpful_percent":0.614112586703875,"review":"INSTEAD of reviewing this game, I'll tell you a tale.   I was hunting some pokeorcs, when I found this huge Olog. He always screamed and didn't comprehend much, but I took a liking to him.  Later on in the game I went to find this EPIC orc lurking around on the borders of the savage forest. Me and my Olog decided that we would ambush him in the middle of a supply run. All went to plan, we fought hard and brave. I finaly manage break the EPIC orc and wish to dominate him (add him to my army). But then. My sweet, sweet Olog turns around and tells me..  \"YOU KILL MY BLOOD BROTHER\", I was absolutly chocked, didn't understand a thing.  My Olog smashes me to the ground, breaks every bone, TAKES my sword and destroys it.  I was so mad at him, so mad. So what did I do, oh I tracked him down to his little outpost.  Murdered his guards and took him to his knees, he said \"AHAHAHAHA, YOU WANT REVENGE BECAUSE SWORD, IT BROKEN\", I slice his arms and legs up without any hesitation. Retrieve my sword (yes if you kill the guy who broke your sword in half, you get your sword back), \"MY PRECIOUS\" I told myself.   A few moments later I felt bad for killing my best friend, he only wanted to save his blood brother.   I guess the lesson is, make sure you don't attack someone's brother from your army.","hours":45.8}
{"funny_percent":0.05970149253731343,"helpful_percent":0.8010529131780809,"review":"I just completed the game, 100% in game and 100% achievements.  I had an absolute blast playing this. The game is wonderful.  If you're enjoyed the original this one is better on all fronts.  So many small improvements and big additions make this experience much more satisfying than the fun first game.  Building armies, conquests, managing orcs, you have to use strategy and skills, to slaughter everything in sight.   The only negative is the last ACT that seemed a bit long and artificial, it consists of 20 conquest missions. Half of that would've been enough, but I was having so much fun I didnt mind it so much.   Regarding Lootboxes:  First off, you can buy them with in-game money, secondly you get gold coins for completing daily missions and can use those as well, and lastly many gold lootboxes drop in game for completing missions, vendettas and conquests.  So you have tons of lootboxes without paying a dollar for them.   The other thing is, you dont need them AT ALL. I got far better loot just playing the game than the loot you can find in gold lootboxes. I actually finished the game with over 60 or 70 lootboxes and I only opened 5 of them!  You simply dont need any of it.   There is too much drama surrounding them, sure microtransactions suck, but in this game you can totally ignore them, they bring nothing extra, you dont need them at all, and you get a ton of them for free anyway.  It's a shame that it has hurt an otherwise awesome game. I had the best time playing this.   Totally recommended.","hours":86.1}
{"funny_percent":0.010471204188481676,"helpful_percent":0.8137930832841122,"review":"I am writing this review in an attempt to further debunk the myths regarding MTX, while giving a small comment on 'game is good'.  Firstly, the game: it is basically a MUCH better sequel to Shadow of Mordor. Everything is more expansive, intuitive, polished, and entertaining - and we even have many new features, as can be seen in the trailer. While many sequels are disappointing letdowns, this is exactly the opposite: it has improved on every aspect of SoM to some degree or another, and added much more on top of that. So if you liked SoM, I predict you will love SoW. If SoM left you feeling kind of 'eh'... well, SoW is still much better, but it might not be for you. Take that into consideration before buying at full price, and if you're the latter, maybe wait for a sale.  Now, regarding the MTX that everyone is in an uproar about. I am not biased. I've played dozens of games with MTX, and many hundreds more without them. I liked SoM, and was slightly put off by SoW MTX when I first heard about them. But I took a dive and after I started playing the game, understanding the mechanics, and got a look at the bigger picture, these are my thoughts on the MTX situation:  1. MTX are not required for any part of the game - I cannot stress it enough, but don't let anyone convince that they are needed at all. They're implemented in such an unintrisuve way, that they're almost superfluous in how useful they are.  2. Nothing in the MTX is 'exclusive' - that is to say, anything you can get in the MTX, you can easily acquire with a little game play. And I do mean a little - legendary orcs and gear are not difficult to acquire AT ALL.  3. You get free gold (MTX currency) from daily challenges that are basically just additives, since the daily challengs mostly happen by you just playing the game normally. So in reality, the MTX boxes are more like extra quest rewards to get a few legendary orcs for free. You also get tons of lootboxes from other sources, such as online 'revenge missions' against orcs that have killed other players, or completing some challenges for boxes directly.  4. It's strongly believed that Monolith did NOT want to put MTX in their game, and that this is a move by Warner Brothers. I suggest people check out some basic guidelines on the publisher / developer relationship, but here's the gist: the publisher (WB) said they want MTX, and the developer (Monolith) must comply. Don't blame Monolith, I can't imagine they'd be dumb enough to do this.  5. A special mention on the endgame stage of the game, Shadow Wars. Many people are talking about how the 'true end' of the game is locked behind a paywall. What they are ignoring is that the Shadow Wars is probably the best part of the game. Many people are even calling for an 'endless war' mode, wherein you can endlessly defend, attack, and reclaim forts. Sure, Shadow Wars takes a fair bit longer compared to the other acts... but it's probably the best part, so who cares? For those of you that can't wait to see the true ending, like that's all you care about or something and not how fun the game happens to be... well, gosh, if only there was a place that people could go to watch videos shared by millions of other people, that likely had the 'true ending' within the first couple of days.  6. The game is still amazing, and should not be discounted just because of the MTX. I can understand wanting to wait for sales, or GOTY edition, or bundles or whatever... but saying you will NEVER play the game because it supports MTX Is asinine. Instead, but the game, and don't buy MTX. They track their income streams, and will see how many of you decide to buy the MTX, and how many don't - that will send a better message.  Hope this review helps some of you formulate a more educated decision on whether or not to get the game. Have a great day!  ","hours":42.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8209078551580472,"review":"(I must say, when you see someone saying the game is bad because of Microtransactions/Day 1 DLC's or whatever, just look at my avatar.)  THIS GAME IS SO GOOD. Honestly? COMPLETELY ignore 90% of the negative reviews, if not all of them. Yes, microtransactions are indeed a downside in the game thanks to greedy Warner Bros, but, the bad reviews aren't much more than whining, sorry to say. I played the hell out of this game and totally intend to do so more when the DLC's come out. Maybe even before.  I have to say, i never, EVER felt the SLIGHT need of buying any Loot Boxes, and i was playing the entire time at the max difficulty. Not even on the \"ehr mer gawd grindy act 4 omg so bad\". That didn't even felt grindy at all until the last 4 defenses, where i had to slide the difficulty down to Normal because i didn't want to change/level up my Uruks. But that's just it, and i still could have done it in the Nemesis difficulty mode, but i would've been risking losing my Fortresses, and i was feeling too lazy to have to take them back.  Anyway, get this game. You'll feel amazed by how different each playthrough/encounter with Uruks can be thanks to the Nemesis System and the new Gear System, that is years better than the Runes in Shadow of Mordor. The game has few downsides like the MT's (ignorable), some quests are boring, you level up too quickly and don't have enough skills to put points on. The history could also be better, but compared to the first game, it's a masterpiece.   I'll say it again. GET THIS GAME. You won't regret it. I got it gifted by my girlfriend, and it's easily one of the best gifts i've ever gotten. 9.5/10 for me.","hours":98.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6570024441104245,"review":"About 60 hours in and having boxed off the story I feel it's a good time to give you my thoughts. This game has strong ties to the previous game in the series Shadow of Mordor but is it's own stand-alone game. There's a small bonus for having beaten the first game and then running the Nemesis Forge but beyond that there is no connection. I played this with the 360/XONE pad and it worked just fine. I didn't have any problems navigating menus/world maps, moving around the world or taking part in combat.   The battle mechanics are somewhat repetitive but they get the job done. If you think along the same lines as Assassin's Creed and Batman Arkham City the combat is very similar to those games. There is a lot of variety in the orc captains. Some are funny, some are evil and some are just plain weird. Captains develop immunities as they level up (max level 65) and they can become pretty fierce and intimidating. Luckily for you, you have a great tool available to you... Celebrimbor's Ring! With the ring you can dominate orcs to make them fight for your army. Be careful though, if you annoy them too much or put them against their Blood Brother they can betray you and suddenly your 1v1 captain fight went to 2v0, and you are the one on your own. I had a great story with an orc called Ghash who was my bodyguard for a while and even saved my life once, sadly he was killed in a later mission and that shocked me since I had built an attachment to him over the course of a few missions. These kind of emergent stories happen a lot during this game and really are totally random.  Instead of the runes you got in the last game, this time when you kill an enemy captain they drop one of 6 types of equipment which can be worn and will change your character's appearance. You can't actually get different types of weapons but there is a ranged hammer to contrast with the ranged bow. You get better equipment by either hunting for better loot or upgrading your existing ones by completing challenges.  There are new beasts to tame, notably the Drakes which you can weaken and then shadow mount in order to fly around the map. There are 5 regions with 4 forts which you can capture and defend. There is an online fortress assault mode where you can invade other player's worlds for a chance at reward chests. There are also online vendetta missions where you can avenge another player's death and get cool loot.  The fortress assaults happen throughout the story and are nice bookends for each particular chapter. In each fortress assault you will want to weaken the warchiefs, strengthen your army and then mount your strategy where you will take your forces to the enemy. Finally you will face a strong overlord and then go into a battle for supremacy. After which you will either fail and have to try again or you will take over the fort and promote an orc to be the new overlord. You can lose forts during story mode and you will probably have trouble defending some in the Shadow Wars endgame.  I thought the story was interesting in parts but some of it did feel like too much filler compared to what was going on during the first act of the game. The collectables were in interesting places and provide lore on the world but are somewhat tedious to pick up by the end. I don't feel the game is too much of a grind at the end in terms of level/loot and I never spent any money on the loot chests. I will most likely buy the two new tribes DLC and replay the story to see which orcs I face on my second playthrough.  I definitely think this is my favourite game of 2017 and it does have a lot of potential provided you aren't bored by the combat or the story missions. It's worth it alone to dip into the nemesis system and just see how insane things can get.","hours":85.9}
{"funny_percent":0.25,"helpful_percent":0.9335071350055586,"review":"After 66 hours I finally completed shadow of war 100%, was it worth my time? I mean yeah ... kind of ... its a double-edged sword with this one. On one hand you have an awsome world, fun, sometimes epic and challenging quests and a enhanced nemesis system which is a lot of fun to mess around with. On the other hand ... you have act 5 \"the shadow wars\" which was just put in the game to sell you these STUPID LOOT BOXES/stretch the play time for a huge amount and even then its really frustraiting to see the orks you just trained for hours die because of something really stupid ( gues its the same with the ones you bought but I dont know that, never spend money on payed crates from the market). Lets talk about the marked, you can get boxes that you can buy with ingame money and with real money there are also potions that make you level 100% faster ( who thought of that ... like thats really stupid you need to spend money [or grind daily quests like I did ... a lot] to get to max level and that is needed if you want to get the best orks and believe me you are going to need them ) and some other things that make the game easier over all ... if you have the money to buy them and dont give a damn]. Where did I want to go with this? ... anyway the shadow wars ... you can attack (and later defend) fortresses which is really fun ... for 20 hours. Ok to be fair the last game didnt have any real endgame but here they just overdid it, it would be ok if it was optional but it isn´t. You have to grind through these if you want to see the real ending. But lets wrap this up, should you buy this game right now in the gold edition for a ton of money? NO ARE YOU STUPID, but for real, wait for a sale and then get it, becasue besides of act 5 I had lots of fun with it and the story is just amazing. This game gets 7 out of 10 decapitate ork heads from me(would have been 10 but the lootbox stuff and act 5 really did no good to the game) (did I meantion this game is really violent?)  Edit: By the way bought the game in a stor to get a DVD version, found out then than even there they only sell boxes with download codes in them. Looks like a version on actual data media only exists for the consoles which isn´t that great, especially for people like me with bad internet.","hours":66.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6861247287816732,"review":"A huge improvement on the original. Not too sure what all the fuss about the loot boxes is... I havnt bought any and the game is still great.","hours":54.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7437692628214972,"review":"Game is so much fun. just too many seige fights and not as good story as i would like.","hours":105.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.646288528414304,"review":"This game is to Shadow of Mordor, what Arkham Knight was to Arkham City & Asylum.   WB just created a NEMESIS Mission against itself by ♥♥♥♥ing up a good game. This nemesis will carry onto the next games you publish WB!!!   Act 1 to 3 are just brilliant. Story may not be that great, but the lore, the locations, the crazy Orcs that fill it and the nicely paced progression more than makes up for it. These are the acts, where you dont even need to touch the Microtransactions.  The LoTR Lore has been a little messied btw... Examples include Shelob as a sexy spider-lady-in sultry dress, Presence of necromancy unlike in Tolkiens works, presence of Helm Hammerhand who literally died thousands of years after Ring Wraiths were chosen, Isildur as a Ring wraith etc etc. If youve read Tolkien, these things will bother you.  Then comes Act 4,the basically pay to win chapter of the game or grind forever mode of the game.   The actual ending of the game is hidden behind this chapter.  And if you are anything like me, you would watch the real ending on Youtube and not touch the microtransactions.  GG on ♥♥♥♥ing up a good game WB. Be Greedy.   Side note: I would hate to down vote this game since its such a deep LoTR lore based game (of course, with some Freedom taken with some characters). This is a very good game flawed by shady Buiness Practices.","hours":45.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.939342542949505,"review":"The game is really fun and has improved over it's predecessor!  Prolly the best thing about the game was and remains the Nemesis system (the orc hierarchy of captains, warchiefs and overlords), which can chalenge each other and can also be dominated to do your bidding (attempt to kill other captains, infiltrate them as spies)  Combat system is very similar with the one in Batman games (Arkham City/Arkham Knight) and is relatively easy (at least on normal mode). Main story quests are also pretty easy on normal difficulty. Basically the only thing that brought some difficulty to my play-through were captains with supper annoying trait combos (like guys with shields -can't be attacked from the front- which also can't be jumped over with and who don't really have any weaknesses which can be exploited). But fights against those captains made it all better when after a hard fight I could dominate them and add them to my ranks.  The game also has some (a lot) of flaws: -lots and lots and lots of cut scenes that you can't skip, from every orc captain that you meet, every damn time!!! -many missions (not story quests) where you actually take more time getting there than you spend doing the mission -micro transactions in a single player game which costs a premium price!! while these are totally optional, the last part of the game, which continues after the main story ends, and is supposed to reveal the \"true ending\" becomes extremely grindy and repetitive. I think they made this part of the game so hard to grind with the purpose of determining people to buy some lootboxes and make things less frustrating -fights become really chaotic some times, because in crowded fights it gets pretty hard to hit the target that you want to hit, or perform the moves that you want (like you want to doge and end up jumping over an enemy that is immune to jumps over him) -and there are more but I think those are enough","hours":68.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7711101392978076,"review":"good as the first game tbh","hours":26.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.781100457934844,"review":"I thought this game was fantastic! The loot boxes are moot, you don't ever need them, I didn't spend an extra penny on the game. Your orcs are strong enough in the game to take you through the end game to avoid the nonsense of loot boxes. The only problem I have with the game is the friggen Shadow Wars, it was fun the first 5 stages, then I was upset cause I just wanted to get the last cutscene! I think it is better then Shadow of Mordor in most ways and tied with Shadow of Mordor in other ways. Great game!","hours":72.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6299724089426642,"review":"The good: -Combat is much better (mostly) - So many new places to explore - Nemesis system is good as always - Actual character customisation. the bad:  - it feels like 80% of enemies have unblockable attacks. - Epilogue is tedious, not a grindfest like many seem to scream, but still annoying - Orcs don't bloody shut up. (Most intros take like 20 seconds, some are just 20 seconds of whimpering and for some reason I can't fathom Monolith has given each captain 3-4 scenes in a single battle. {Introduction of Captain, Captain notices you, You attack the captain, You kill the captain. All of these have 20-30 second introductions, which is unacceptable.}) - Because of the large scale battles the combat is a lot slower, you'll spend half your time dodging and the other haf using arrows to stop Orcs with unblockable attacks from rushing you. The ugly:  - Unbalanced Captains, Better than Shadow of Mordor, except not really, Overlords can be resistant to everything except stealth, in case you didn't know, you can't stealth attack Overlords. As in, impossible, not at all within the game. - Combat is a lot less fun now, It feels like they dumbed down the orcs and in return just made more of them, You won't be able to keep up your hitstreak for more than 20-30 because you physically can't move without getting hit by 7 orcs. - A lot of glitches, one in particular where left clicking causes the attack animation to \"stick\" and Talion just raises and lowers his sword repeatedly - Controls are unreliable at best, nonresponsive at worst, \"E\" and \"Spacebar\" in particular feel the most unresponsive. - Captains don't shut up - not that much new orc variety - CAPTAINS DON'T BLOODY SHUT UP But overall a worthwhile experience, just don't be surprised if you die a lot, it's not you, it's the game","hours":48.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7819917118221867,"review":"This is my Shadow of War story  I got killed by the same Orc minion three times in the early game, Killed him twice.  I believe he is my nemesis, but a greater enemy is sometimes a better friend.  20 gameplay hours later after killing him for the third time, he comes back as one of the undead orcs.  I wanted to recruit him but I couldn't cause he just magically disappeared :(  Good bye forever my good orc friend, goodbye Zunn the Tarkslayer, till we meet again!","hours":74.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9752349518254848,"review":"I played this game religiously when it came out. Loved it to pieces. I stopped playing after a while though. Other games came along and as it happens it slowly faded to the back of the pile. However, I have not uninstalled it. I always think about it when I start up Steam. It still has a very solid place in my heart as a well developed piece of work. Perhaps when half my army betrayed me I had to go in to a time of mourning for those lost and reflect on my decisions.... Nah. I just needed time to recover and build a better army.","hours":37.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6268419889023453,"review":"good as the first game tbh","hours":26.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8459190627652491,"review":"YOU ARE MINE!!!!","hours":79.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9388109896921375,"review":"전작과 다를바없는 모션들이 많지만 그만큼 발전한것도 꽤 많은 미들어스 쉐도우 오브 워 ","hours":26.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7726922907532183,"review":"Game ceases to amaze me, the story, the graphics, the gameplay is top notch. I recommend anyone who loves LOTR and fantasy games play this one. 10/10","hours":65.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6051855437209822,"review":"if you liked Shadow of Mordor , your going to love Shadow of war.  Amazing game , more content more fun.","hours":55.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8706974940194103,"review":"I thought this game was fantastic! The loot boxes are moot, you don't ever need them, I didn't spend an extra penny on the game. Your orcs are strong enough in the game to take you through the end game to avoid the nonsense of loot boxes. The only problem I have with the game is the friggen Shadow Wars, it was fun the first 5 stages, then I was upset cause I just wanted to get the last cutscene! I think it is better then Shadow of Mordor in most ways and tied with Shadow of Mordor in other ways. Great game!","hours":72.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9336835955430617,"review":"I love the game. It's a great improvement to its prequel while feeling you are the same character. Orcs have a multitude of attitudes that brings a lot to the experience. Hence, my girlfriend loves to watch me play and can't get enough of the orcs' attitude and humour. The game is long enough, the cut scenes are remarkable, and the endgame is breathtaking","hours":54.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7492110529515037,"review":"So I'm 93 hours in it looks like. I've enjoyed it all!   Anyone complaining about LORE, means you're over 30 and only get erect with paper cuts to your manhood. You're the same ♥♥♥♥♥♥♥s that complained they had women in LOTR movies so bugger.  Anyone complaining about loot boxes, ummmmm, don't buy them? I'm seriously drowning in the amount of FREE loot boxes they give you. If you ever watched my Twitch, it's insane. Loot boxes cost 750, I got like 40k coin sitting there and I bought everything else. I got 20 boxes and 30 orcs just waiting for me to poke at, but I don't need them. They do have \"special\" boxes that spawn different weekly, and if you do your weekly/daily/community challenges, you ALSO get THEM for FREE! EVERYTHING IS FREE if you just, play the game. This is true for EVERY DAMN GAME people complain about. SWBF2, 18 hours to unlock everyone, another 10 to get all the parts to make the weapons you WANT, so 28 hours of playing (or as I call it, TRAINING) before you are endgame where you want...or pay $10-$20 to SKIP 20 hours. If you mad cause someone else has more time than money, GET A BETTER JOB and STFU! :)  Anyone complaining about non skipable dialog...ok, I'm with you there. There is just like 2 voice sets for the EPIC olags that take 45 damn seconds to listen to and it's the same EVERYTIME you meet them. The normal captains have more variety, but the epic guys need an interupt button.  So, play it, now or later, but just like the first one, it's worth the time and pit fights are FUN!","hours":98.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9885145332168754,"review":"Solid game, do not buy the loot boxes tho, they actually don't help at all. The entire point of the game is to have interactions with the Uruks, buying them just bypasses that. Also, like the original, this game gets way too easy at the end. Hoepfully that difficulty update will help.","hours":88}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9679062999771892,"review":"Let's keep it short. I played Shadow of Mordor ( The game before this ) and got hyped and started waiting for this. Well it released and I couldn't have been happier playing it. controls are simple, gameplay is smooth, graphics are awesome. I bought it with 60€ and god dammit it was worth it!","hours":34.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7534418753078123,"review":"Does anyone else long for the good old days when PC games had controls that were designed around actual PC input devices, instead of just crappy console controls mapped to a keyboard? Context-sensitive controls (one key for jump, run, interact, use item, etc, etc, etc, etc) are the worst part of this game. Nothing says fun like somersaulting like a kindergartener across a battlefield instead of sprinting because the game is confused about what you wanted to do.  It is possible to play without the online crap, but it punishes you for this by making you agree to the terms and conditions before AND AFTER every game if you opt out of their online garbage.  And it goes without saying that this game kinda craps all over established LOTR lore. If you don't get hung up on that fact, you can enjoy playing Undead-Murder-Batman all day long.  Overall, the game is fun but frustrating. Repetitive in many areas. Worth getting on sale, but I wouldn't pay full price and I seriously doubt the DLC adds anything to the game at all.","hours":8.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7118025876683904,"review":"if you liked Shadow of Mordor , your going to love Shadow of war.  Amazing game , more content more fun.","hours":55.2}