{"funny_percent":0.040156709108716944,"helpful_percent":0.8271419807760872,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW [written for version 0.51]  In modern parlance Paladins would be described as a free-to-play \"hero shooter\" - that is to say, an objective based, co-op only, first-person shooter where, rather than your avatar being largely defined by the gun you pick or the items and abilities you equip, they're already fully formed characters with their own unique, pre-defined abilities and specific roles.  There are several modes to play, but the main thrust of the game is Siege mode, which sees two teams of five charge to the centre of a map and try to hold an objective zone. While there's a lot of nuance to the mechanics and conditions of play, the fundamentals are this - capturing an objective zone to spawn a payload earns your team one point; escorting the payload to the enemy base earns you another point; but if the opposing team manages to successfully prevent the payload from reaching their base within a set time, then they earn the point. First to four points wins the match.  Characters, or \"champions\", technically fall into one of four different roles - front line; \"tanks\" made to take punishment and hold the objective - damage; made to dish out said punishment - support; primarily focused on healing - and flank; who are all about being sneaky-sneaky and harassing the enemy from behind. I say \"technically\", because, even though that's how they're labelled in-game, most champions can bleed into a couple of roles to varying degrees.  One important thing to note is you can't change champions once the match has started. So if you're part of a terrible group of players who wouldn't know how to create a decent team composition to save their life, then you're kinda screwed and more or less have to endure a horribly unbalanced game where a team lacks any real cohesion and synergy. But to help with this to some degree are loadouts and items.  Every champion has a deck of sixteen cards that are unique to them, and during your time outside of matches, you can construct your own loadout based on five of these cards which boosts the effectiveness of their abilities. Items are like temporary versions of cards that can be acquired mid game but are only applied for the duration of the match and bought with credits earned during play. And finally, there are Legendary cards, with each champion having three of these but needing to commit to one for the whole match. These are cards which apply a massive bonus to one of your abilities and can make your champ highly specialised in one aspect of performance or another. But this is where you have to be really careful, as choosing the wrong cards or items could make or break how a match goes.  This is actually one of the most ingenious features of the game, I think, as it allows for a lot of strategy and means the player with the best aim or reflexes won't necessarily be the victor. In fact, one of the things I love so much about the game is how accessible it is to so many different skill levels and styles of play. If you just want to do the shooty pew-pew thing, there's plenty of characters that'll have you covered there. Maybe your aim isn't so good but you have a keen sense of timing and situational awareness, in which case healer might be the role for you. Or maybe you just like being a stonkin' great big tank throwing your weight around at the centre of it all. There's a little something for just about everyone.  But the real star of the show here is the ever increasing cast of colourful, creative characters that somehow manage to all play massively differently from one another. Both the design and artwork really shines through, and is topped off with great animation and largely top-notch voice acting. There's an abundance of detail in every aspect of them, whether it's some little nicks and scuffs on the side of a firearm, or even the motions as they actually fire and are reloaded, or just the way a character moves around and performs each of their abilities, or even how they idle. There's a real sense of love and attention that's very clear to see, and that extends to every aspect of the presentation both throughout the UI and within each of the many maps as well. And, if anything, this only seems to be getting better as more and more interesting and creative content is being released with admirable and impressive regularity.  As well as all the artwork (I don't think enough credit goes to the card art in particular, while I'm at it) I think special mention has to go to the audio as well. Sound is very important in this game as every single champion has their own noises, from the sounds of their abilities being activated, to their main weapon being fired, to the stomps of their feet. If you listen out to what's going on around you then there's an awful lot of information to be found just by keeping your ears open. At any given moment you'll likely be able to tell exactly who's firing, roughly what direction they're in, and probably even how far away they are. A lot of players probably aren't even consciously aware of it, but it's always there and making a huge difference, more so than just about any other game I can immediately think of.  It's not all roses, though, as the game does have its fair share of problems. Personally, I think the damage feedback is desperately in need of improvement. Having the very outer edge of the screen momentarily turn a faint red hardly seems adequate in the heat of combat, and at this point I've lost track of the number of times I've died without even knowing I was being attacked in the first place. But a bigger issue than that is the matchmaking.  I wouldn't go so far as to say it's broken, but I'm only a few more bad games away from calling it that. It feels like it's becoming increasingly hard to get games with consistantly matched players of equal skill, and 4-0 stomps are becoming more of a thing lately - which are never fun, no matter what side of them you're on. The rating system, on the other hand, I think at this point I can call broken. In Competitive mode, both your individual champions and your overall account ratings are awarded or docked points based on whether you win or lose, and then (presumably) used to calculate further matchmaking as it attempts to queue you up with players of equal skill. The trouble with this system is, it seems so focused on the bottom line win or lose result and has little bearing on personal preformance. As a result, you could play the best game of your life, but if you were teamed up with bad players, or someone on your team was disconnected or there were heavy lag issues, the game doesn't really care and will still deduct you for it. It's really not fun when you feel as though you're being punished regardless of your own ability or contribution, and as it stands right now, my own personal rating for both my account and many of my champions are in the toilet despite my consistant above average performances. And the worse thing is, that effect only seems to be confounded with time, as it takes multiple wins to make up the points for a single loss.  Also, due to recent changes, the grind for new players seems a little rough going. Cards need to be unlocked through a random loot chest system or bought with \"essense\" from duplicate cards, which could take a while and doesn't exactly encourage new player experimentation. Although, to its credit, it's nowhere near being pay-to-win, and I think Hi-Rez are generally pretty reasonable, and maybe even generous, with its current financial model.  I mentioned the build version at the start because this is a game that's constantly changing. It's worth pointing out this was a very different game a year ago compared to what it is today, and some or all of what I've written could be completely irrelevent a year from now, for better or worse. But if it does change, I really hope it will be for good, and that I'll still be playing it and loving it just as much then as I do now.  Oh and you can ride horseys!","hours":1447.7}
{"funny_percent":1.690295358649789,"helpful_percent":0.9668436542867684,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW \"Mom, can i use your credit card to buy Overwatch?\" \"no\" \"ok\"","hours":8.6}
{"funny_percent":0.7902985074626866,"helpful_percent":0.6130332567597578,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW \"No Money For Overwatch\". The game","hours":121.3}
{"funny_percent":0.031914893617021274,"helpful_percent":0.9244110699034519,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW After playing 11 hours....here are some details.   First off, something everyone must understand is that this game pits you against BOTS until your account reaches level 5. Just incase you feel the game is too easy when you first try it.   Secondly, this isn't Overwatch, but it is close in nature, and it borrows heavily from SMITE. Try to look at it as another \"Hero Shooter\", a genre.   You have these 4 classes: Frontline, Damage, Support, Flank.   Each HERO has a loadout you can customize, unlike Overwatch, unlike Smite.   You have several slots to create your own custom loadout, and the game provides you with a default loadout for each Hero.   The loadouts consist of 5 cards, these cards have unique modifiers that have an affect on the Hero ability associated with that card, and each card has a number value 1-4 that you can determine given a 12 point system.   The cards effectively change the Hero's set abilities. So for instance, if your Hero can produce a shield, one of the cards might allow the Hero to self-heal while you use the shield ability. So all cards do is slightly alter the Hero powers to provide a bit of customization and playstyle variance.  I mentioned the 12 point system. To elaborate, when creating a loadout you must choose 5 cards to complete it, and each card is given a point value of 1 by default. You are given 12 points to raise the cards of your choice to a maximum of 4 points in a single card, but you can only spend 12 points total, so not all 5 cards will be allowed to reach the highest upgrade at the same time. So choosing which cards to enhance more than others is the trick.   As you can imagine, adding aditional points to a card enhances the stated change that occurs to the Hero power associated with that card.   On top of all this, you have the items you can only purchase in a match, this is like SMITE or other MOBA's where you fight in a match for awhile and collect points to purchase upgrades that affect your character in different ways but are limited in use to that match. These changes are things like movement speed, defense, offensive strength, and other utility type enhancements. There are no consumable's at this point.   Now..lets talk about loot boxes. To my knowledge loot boxes are rewarded when you level up your account..not your hero. Hero's have a leveling system and you have a different system of leveling overall. Whenever you level up your account, you get a loot box to open.   Once opened, the loot boxes provide you with random prizes, but mostly cards that can be used in the loadouts as mentioned above. Note that you win a gold currency by playing the game, and the same cards you might receive for FREE in the loot boxes can be purchased individually with this currency you collect as you play. As far as I know \"some\" cosmetic items like skins will also come out of loot boxes but I haven't had any drop for me yet.   As for gameplay, it's currently simple; you fight over a control point until one side controls it, then you push a \"payload\" or \"small little thingy\" to the other end of the map to win...if you are defending you just stop those guys from doing that and you win...Not much else to do really...I hope they work on this.   Regardless of the repetitive nature, and lack of variety, I enjoy the game, I play Overwatch competitively and this gives me a nice but familure break from the seriosness of Competitive Overwatch.  Speaking of competitive! Paladins offers the option to play RANKED matches, but only once you have taken 12 of the 16 current Hero's to a level of 4. I'm working on that and perhaps I'm just a masochist for doing so.   So there you go thats the game in a nutshell, in my opinion the game lacks variety, but in it's defense, it has only just made it to open beta. I was a fan of Smite for awhile and I can assume this game will do just as well and grow into a much larger experience.   I hope this review helps people make the insurmountable decision to install a FREE game and give it a shot.   Have a good time!","hours":11.8}
{"funny_percent":0.06498194945848375,"helpful_percent":0.80348094687471,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Update on 9-23-2017 (OB59): Matchmaking is completely unbalanced now. Either my team steamrollers the other team, or they completely roll over us. Champion re-balancing has completely changed the gameplay dynamics - and most of the balance fixes make the game worse to play, not better. Oh, and Talus is impossible to beat in the hands of a good player - his teleport and super are both extremely OP.  And, incidentally, the player-base has worsened, with lots of afk, feeding, and general stupidity. Time to give Paladins a rest for a while.  (Original review) This review is for OB52.  Paladins asks the question: with a game this good being free to play, why bother spending $60 for a similar experience? Paladins is still in beta, but if you’re just looking to go and play a couple of matches every day, level and equip characters, and enjoy fun co-operative versus-style matches, it is a shining example of how good free-to-play (FTP) can be. Total size on my hard drive: 6.3 GB.  ++ NOT pay-to-win. There are things you can purchase to level faster, but nothing is required.  + Great graphics. Drawn in a cartoon-y style like Torchlight or Kingdoms of Amalur, it uses the old DirectX 9 api, so it’ll run well even on lower-end machines. + A wide selection of characters, though only 5 to start with in the FTP version. Some very funny specials, too (like turning an enemy player into a chicken!). + Customizeable passives via cards. There are a lot of options to choose from (though not at first), allowing for different rates of damage and effectiveness of special attacks. + Maps are perfectly sized for 5v5. Not too large or too small. + Quick match-making at the time of writing. Average wait time is between 0:30 and 2:00. + Gold drops at a decent rate (bonuses and quests help). + A team working together will almost ALWAYS defeat a team of solo artists. If you’re hoping to be a hero and try soloing a group of enemies, you’ll die. Fast. + Occasional lag, but overall a very good online experience. + I like a ton of maps because it keeps the game fresh. Paladins has about a dozen (some specific to certain modes), with more on the way. + It’s impossible for two people on the same team to play the same champion. Prevents excessive trait exploitation and forces teams to try to balance their squad.  +/- Unlocking all the characters at the start of the game requires the purchase of the $20 “Founders Pack.” Some things HAVE to be hidden behind a pay-wall – nothing is ever truly free, and the company has to make some money somewhere. $20 is an extremely reasonable price considering the amount of content included. And if you decide to forego the Founders Pack, the good rate of the gold drop means you’ll be able to afford a new hero or two quite quickly. +/- If 5v5 seems like a low number of players in a match, don’t hope for more. The maps would feel crowded. +/- Not a fault of the game, but the usual multi-player nonsense is present in Paladins. By that I mean: solo-artists trying to be heroes without playing the objective(s), who then blame everyone else for losing the match. “Good” matches far outnumber the bad, but don’t be surprised if jerks show up (as they inevitably will) from time to time. The community in general is helpful. +/- No drop-in / drop-out. Matches only start with a full roster. Not an outright negative because it helps prevent cheating and makes the gameplay easier to balance, but those hoping to join matches that are in progress will be disappointed.  - No weapon loadout customization. What you see is what you get. Again, easier to maintain, implement and balance, but those hoping for customized weapons won’t get them. - While maps are generally sized well for the number of players, sometimes it feels like there are only two or three corridors that need to be controlled. - Paladins is still in beta, so there are still adjustments to be made. Some champions (like Maeve) are incredibly OP and in major need of nerfing.  I’m basically reaching to come up with outright negatives. If you enjoy a quick-paced, flowing multiplayer game with plenty of fun maps and unique characters, Paladins is worth a look. And it’s free to play! Mind-boggling. An easy recommendation.","hours":68.1}
{"funny_percent":0.9929767693138843,"helpful_percent":0.9467376123603513,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW -Do you want Overwatch? -Yes! -Do you have money? -No  -Here is a free Overwatch for you!","hours":6.1}
{"funny_percent":0.03272727272727273,"helpful_percent":0.8588067022180635,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I've made it past the 1200 hours mark and I think Im qualified enough to leave a decent review. Paladins is a great game with a small and growing community. This game is not perfect, don't expect it to be especially because it's still in \"BETA\". People Like to compare it to the big O, sure there are some similarities but this game is a completely different experience. It has more MOBA elements to it; loadouts, mounts and the credit system are what makes this game versatile and more complex. It has a great selection of \"Champions\" and i'm sure you'll find someone that'll match your playstyle.  I will List down the pros on cons that makes me hate/love this game.    Pros: +Community - the community is smaller compared to its big brothers but this community is tight-knit and less toxic. You can see how the community support each other especially on twitch. The Paladins Twitch account periodically hosts smaller streamers but they host a lot of the bigger streamers a lot of times, they need to switch it up soon.  +Timely Update - currently, they are releasing updates once every 2 weeks. That is very impressive to me. They listen to the players and they make sure updates are pushed on time.  +It's Effing FREE! - If that's not enough reason for you to give this one a try , i don't what would convince you. I mean you have nothing to lose! I honestly think this is the reason why this game is getting so much hate from the other community. It hurts their ego that people are actually enjoying a free-to-play game.   +Optimization - Paladins itself is a small file and can run on a potato! this makes it very stream-friendly and also wallet-friendly ;)  +Loot - you get free in-game stuff everytime you login and when you refer friends. You also get a chance to get free skins, weapons and crystals if you watch the Official Paladins Streams on Twitch. You dont have to spend a dime you can unlock a lot stuff. More stuff at their website.    Cons: -Servers & Downtime - As much as I love this game, HiRez Servers are probably the worst game servers i've personally encountered. The amount of down time in this game because of server issues is disgusting. Don't even get me started on the drop hacks. By the way SEA servers are still messed up, first game you get 90ping, next game you get 400ping. It's been months and still not fixed  -Achievements - I wish they'd be more creative with their achievements. Add in some Challenging ones. Well as of OB60 they added more achievements in the game. Kudos to the devs  -Matchmaking - matchmaking as of the moment is... crap. I have reached level 200+ and I sometimes get paired with/matched against people below level 20 and it's frustrating. People who are still new and clueless about the game. I'm sure they're working on improving this.  -Yo-yo Nerfing - Yes the updates are timely but hirez has a habit of \"fixing characters\" that are not broken. This patch he's nerfed, next update she's buffed. It can be a little discouraging sometimes.  -Grind - If you hate grind then this game may not be for you. It's not an easy grind especially if you dont have the Founder's Pack. You have to do a little grinding to unlock all cards and champions. This could be a little overwhelming for new players but playing with friends can help it make easier. You get extra XP and gold when u play with friends  -EAC - Easy Anti-cheat. where do i begin?... this software is a little controversial so im gonna leave it at that. Im sure other reviews have talked about this in depth    For a free-to-play beta game, Paladins has a lot of content and still has tons of potential. They are slowly adding lore and integrating nice story to some of the characters. New awesome skins and weapons that you can mix and match. If you really want to make the most out of this game, I say play with an open mind and stop comparing everything to other games, only then you will see its own beauty.    \"Comparison is the thief of joy\" -Theodore Roosevelt","hours":1644.5}
{"funny_percent":0.07212475633528265,"helpful_percent":0.9039573666900711,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Dubbed the poor man's Overwatch by many, Paladins is a game that takes heavy inspiration from its peers. Overwatch isn't alone either, this game has moba elements and also borrows some from tf2. Despite this, I do think that Paladins can stand on its own as a fun experience. It's free to play, so there's really no reason not to give it a shot for now. It does have its fair share of design problems and questionable decisionmaking by its developers though, which I'll get into in a bit. But first, the positive.  Pros + Free to play + High performance, lower end PCs should be able to run this game + Can play against AI to practice + Buying new heros with in game currency is reasonable and doesn't require microtransactions + Queue times are short  Cons - Microtransactions in a beta, this one really annoys me personally - Some character abilities have little to no indicator, making it confusing as to who is trying to heal you or where you are getting damaged from - No indicator for when other players are partied up in a match  Fixed Issues + Training mode now allows players to try out different champtions without restarting + There are loading icons when entering a match now to notify players + Overtime has been looked at and changed so that the timer decreases more rapidly over time  As time has gone on, Hi Rez has begun to deal with many of the cons I originally listed in this review, this is good news and I feel that anyone interested should give Paladins a shot. I highly recommend playing this game with a group of friends however, because it can be very frustrating going it alone. Clueless players are abound, and this problem is exacerbated by the fact that after a few matches against AI they are suddenly thrown in with eachother.","hours":35.3}
{"funny_percent":0.05555555555555555,"helpful_percent":0.8687899382062434,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW - Very nice visuals - Game is optimized very well - Good UI - Very fair F2P model - Good selection of champions - Cool abilities - Card system which allows for different champion builds - Can have multiple loadouts saved for each champion - Match buff selection system  - You ride a mount to battle - Champion/ Weapon/ Mount skins - Player stats history/ Match results history - Loot boxes which contain cards/skins  Just very fun overall. I see myself sticking with this. ","hours":46.5}
{"funny_percent":0.05517241379310345,"helpful_percent":0.7441305896472075,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW The Poor Man's Overwatch, but that doesn't mean it's worthless.  Yes, I saw the trailer. Yes, I played both Paladins and Overwatch (Free weekend). Although there are many similarities, there is still reason to consider playing Paladins (which has been in production since before Overwatch was even announced).  At this point, Paladins consists of 2 modes: Siege (Control Point + Payload) and Payload (Push the cart). Each champion has special abilities and yes, there are waifus with that good ol' TnA.  Sounds too similar to Overwatch? Thought so... \"So what makes Paladins worth my attention?\"? Thought as much too. To start, Paladins is FREE. Paladins also offers a customizable system that allows you to use cards to power up abilities on your champion before you even enter the battle fray. Like MVM mode in Team Fortress 2, you're also allowed to purchase in-game powerups with earnable match currency (exclusive to that match only).  You also get gold (and sometimes crystals) on daily login. Gold is the free currency of Paladins, which can be used to purchase purely cosmetic things. Crystals, however, are the paid currency that can be used to change your name, purchase other cosmetics, and to purchase chests (Much like TF2 keys, except these crates auto-open after being purchased and selected).  The only flaws right now include some nerfing / buffing that needs to be done here and there along with a clear lack of content. Long-story-short, \"Over-ladins\" / \"Pala-watch\" is worth looking into. I already freakin' LOVE this game!!! And with a price tag of \"Free\", you're not really losing anything in trying it out. (Besides, it's the STEAM version of Overwatch with achievements)  9/10 Potential in the making. Ready to see how this game progresses. Lore + SFM vids when?!?!","hours":313.5}
{"funny_percent":0.40537848605577687,"helpful_percent":0.8207348531825862,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Can't afford Overwatch. Saw Paladins. Now I'm hooked.  I can see how this is similiar to Overwatch, but it's good though. And free.","hours":30.1}
{"funny_percent":1.8288288288288288,"helpful_percent":0.6232157761450839,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW It looks like overwatch, FREE , on STEAM, why are you waiting for?    It even got a russian guy, Viktor    he rush b.","hours":24.5}
{"funny_percent":0.11403508771929824,"helpful_percent":0.8628519045566982,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I just think it's funny that Drogoz has to ride a horse into battle.  Anyways, yeah, I was like the rest of you - I went into this experience as a biased little child, convinced that this game was nothing special - just an Overwatch clone.   But no. No, no, no, it is far from it. Character customization is brilliant, as is character progression. You can equip these loadout cards in-game that give your character different buffs, and rank up your defensive or offensive capabilities during a match, based on how the match is going; the more credits you earn during a match, the faster you can improve your character for that one match. Paladins pioneered this system. Games like Gigantic took their cues from this game right here.  Customization is great. Most weapon skins and cosmetics you can buy with gold, which you farm for by participating in matches. The more friends you play with, the more gold you are rewarded (so bring a friend!). More exclusive items are bought with crystals, which are awarded to you through daily login rewards. If you are impatient, you can buy crystals, but YOU DO NOT HAVE TO. It all depends on how patient you are. (Personally, I have no problem with you endorsing this game. Hi-Rez maintains and adds new content onto the game on a regular basis, and it is worth supporting their balls-to-the-wall efforts.)   How about queue times? Between 30 seconds and 1 minute. Sometimes longer. Kinda frustrating.   Visual quality? Okay. I mean, this game could run on a Macintosh if you wanted it to run badly enough. Graphics aren't bad, they just aren't stunning. It would be nice if there was a bit of a texture overhaul. Objects look blurry even on maximum settings and it's a bit sad for those with killer machines.  But lordy-lord is matchmaking fun! Each game is different, everyone plays every hero a bit differently because of the loadout and in-match credit system, so you'll never have a boring time.   Play this. 'Tis fun.","hours":58.7}
{"funny_percent":0.06741573033707865,"helpful_percent":0.7766136583201326,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I know it says I don't have much time put into the game, but my ingame profile says that before the Steam release, I had 43 days (1032 hours).  This is a very fun game. Sure, it is known to change a ton with every patch, but that is to be expected with an Early Access game. I've been around since the closed beta release. The game has become much more polished, and I'm amazed at the progress.  The gameplay is awesome. The TTK isn't insanely low, but not insanely high, either. Think Overwatch, with a slightly longer TTK.  The scenery is beautiful with the recent map updates. Sometimes I go into bot matches and turn up my graphics settings just to look around.  The character design could use more originality, but I really like the characters still. Needless to say (if you look at my icon), Pip is my favorite. Very original character, original abilities, authentic personality. Pip isn't the only character like this. Some characters may seem like archtypes, but try to look past that and listen to their voicelines, look at their emotes, and you'll see there's more behind the \"standard sexy female sniper\" that some call Cassie, or the \"cool dragon\" that is Drogoz.  The ranked system and balance, unfortunately, is quite subpar. The ranked system (as of writing this) is entirely based on champs. There is no account rank, only champ ranked. Because of this, you get people that dodge because they didn't get to pick their favorite champ, and those who ignore team comp to grind their champ to masters.  I think that though this game doesn't look as nice as Overwatch, it is a great buy for those that want a free game, those who want to watch the development process, and those who \"just don't get\" Overwatch playstyles. I couldn't play anything for any game before I picked up Pip, now I'm on the international leaderboards with him.  TL;DR Pros: Fun gameplay Good-looking maps and scenery Interesting characters Free Cons: Not much originality Not very many \"balanced\" champs Ranked system that promotes grinding a single champion rather than learning the game ","hours":2612.9}
{"funny_percent":1.3381818181818181,"helpful_percent":0.6516587462659448,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This has horses.  Overwatch doesn't.","hours":16.6}
{"funny_percent":0.1411764705882353,"helpful_percent":0.8022546154713087,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Lots of potential I have played 15 hours of this game, and to be honest, it's worth your time...  Pros: Free to play Quick matchmaking Fast paced Plenty of characters Beta, so a lot more content to come Has a lot of potential  Cons: You can get kicked out the game randomly (*fixed*) Characters need rebalancing especially skye {op} and pip {up} There are not enough maps, there are about 5+ at the moment. I know this is Beta, but the new maps cannot come soon enough for me  Characters: Barik: Has too many shields for his own good, can shut down most long range characters and ults with just a shield which to me is frustrating. But then again he is a front line/tanking character. After 100 hours: Good character, very tanky with the right loadout, but with no team support, he might as well be getting♥♥♥♥♥♥♥behind some dustbins. Fernando: I feel that this character would be perfect with a little more speed, or range, or ult duration, or more health. He's basically a bag of meat that is useless without someone by his side at all times, he seems to not be able to kill anyone at all. After 100 hours: Borderline op, impossible to take down on your own, especially if you have to get close to him because, in close quarters, he will ♥♥♥♥ you up.  Makoa: I haven't played this hero yet simply because I haven't unlocked him, but he seems like a good tank as long as someone is there to heal him. After 100 hours: Not really that good of a character. He's basically a single target killing tank, he'll only work if you hook the most valuable targets. He also gets shut down by other shield bearing tanks. Ruckus: Someone PLEASE BUFF HIS JETS.... holy ♥♥♥♥ they're useless. I'd say buff his jets so that he can fly for 2 seconds at the speed that the jets are at the moment, as long as you are holding the button down. Then make it so that it starts cooling down 3 seconds after using it, then takes a whole 5 seconds to regen back 2 seconds of flight. After 100 hours: He needs a buff somehow, a health buff to get him on par with other tanks would help. An ok hero, but to be honest, if he's anything more than 1v1ing someone, he'll lose. Bomb king: Fun as ♥♥♥♥. If you play this character right, you'll be a literal king, however, I think he'd benefit from a health buff, maybe 2800 health or more, he's a little squishy in my opinion. After 100 hours: In the right hands this character is formidable, but those hands aren't mine. Cassie: I'd like if the arrows had a charge mechanic, rather than just pinging arrows off the bow. The ult seems a little lackluster as well, but maybe that's just me. After 100 hours: Now this character is the broken one, taking out teams of people over and over again. Here dps is so good, she team wipes. 700 damage per 0.75 seconds, it's ♥♥♥♥ing ridiculous. This is the op character right now. Drogoz: An overwatch pharah remake of sorts, but I don't care, I love this dragon to bits. I just wish he had a bigger explosion radius with his rockets, the further you are from the epicenter, the less damage it should do. Then I'll never leave this explosive lizard. After 100 hours: Still ♥♥♥♥ing love this lizard, despite his 'salvo' ability being buggy at times and not firing correctly, he is amazingly fun to play, and my main 'goto' hero.  Kinessa: A nice sniper class, love it. After 100 hours: Deadly if you can aim, 'nough said. Viktor: His grenade is a bit funky in physics but, other than that and the run mechanic which seems to be stolen from overwatch, he's a good well-rounded character. After 100 hours: his focus fire damage is powerful, I constantly see viktors' topping the kill counts for both teams. Yet he isn't op, just stay out his line of sight. Grohk: Meh. Nothing special, pretty weak healer. After 100 hours: Meh. He's just meh. Not very fun to play, his aoe heal might as well also constitute him doing something else with his time like being♥♥♥♥♥♥♥behind a dustbin. Grover: Great all round healer, the best healer in this game in my opinion. I wish he had a 20% increase to the stock range of his passive heal, however, maybe make it so that he heals 10% slower as a balance, then I'll love him to the end of time. After 100 hours: This guy is the best team healer still unless you change the loadout for mal'damba, (many gourds card) then you might be better off than grover. Play mal'damba if you really want single target heals though, he is a beast at that♥♥♥♥♥♥ Pip: After 125 hours: I should fine tune what I meant originally. He's a waste of space when he doesn't play with the team & the objective. This character encourages independent play as a support, which is why I resent Pip so much. I see WAY too many pips playing independently chasing kills that flanks should be, it only works against unorganized brainless teams, which isn't often, thus, we fail because of their incompetence. His heals are also so far a few between, that they only stack up effectively if you're with the rest of the team playing the objective, and even then most skilled healers could do better. Which is why I almost always pick up a healing support role when I see a level 0-15 Pip get picked. I still however believe a Pip rework is needed to stop this unhelpful independant play. Ying: An ok character, nothing special to be honest. She's a good healer, however, not as good as grover though.. After 100 hours: She's♥♥♥♥♥♥ Way too squishy to be out of the front lines. But that's the trouble you see, she needs to be out on the front lines because she's meant to HEAL PEOPLE. I don't mind people going ying as much as I do someone going pip though. Androxus: He has great potential in him if you flank correctly, and hit all your shots. After 100 hours: This guy, you need the right mind set to play him, he just isn't my style at all. He's ok, he's just nowhere near my cup of tea. Buck: I don't have buck unlocked at the moment, but I don't see many people playing him at all, there might be a reason for this... with bot encounters however, he does appear majorly underpowered. This character needs a major rework, just like pip, but not quite as badly as pip. After 100 hours: I take back what I said about Buck, he's good :3 .  Evie: Yet again, haven't unlocked this hero yet, she seems powerful, however, is a glass cannon, I reckon she's a good all rounded character... if you play her right. After 100 hours: The highest skill ceilinged character in the game me thinks.  Skye: Broken, Overpowered, The dps character to beat. She will ♥♥♥♥ you if you are a low health class. Something on Skye needs nerfing, she can output a stupid amount of damage, and go invisible, then when you're not looking, she'll place a bomb that has the range of the Hiroshima explosion and at the same time one hit anything with less than 3000 health regardless of shields that are in use at the time. After 100 hours: She got nerfed with here ult, and she doesn't seem to be much of a problem anymore, I'm happy. With this character, don't go after a full health tank, it won't work, take out the ones easy to pick off, either with low health or low health cap, or take out the healers and snipers of the game like Kenessa and Viktor (He's sort of a sniper lets be honest here). Mal'Damba + Pip cont.: http://pastebin.com/VbaWxSjZ  Conclusion: A big potential game which has plenty of room to grow, but needs to do so fast to keep people on board, and keep a flux of new players coming in. Personally, this could easily be the new tf2 for me. After 100 hours: Love this game still, just wish they'd nerf cassie already lol","hours":151.2}
{"funny_percent":0.04,"helpful_percent":0.6289900459946369,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW quick disclaimer; this is all my personal opinion and experience. i haven't played paladins competitively yet but im working on it. my opinions on the game might change when i do.  as someone who has put over 2,000 hours in TF2, and is over level 100 on Overwatch; and have played both games competitively i reckon i have some grounds on which to stand when comparing Paladins to them.  in short, no, they are not at all the same. it seems like the entire internet likes to jump on a giant bandwagon of hate when a new fresh FPS is released, and it almost always calls games \"rip offs\" or \"copy's\" of other games. from experience, i can say that paladins is a game more balanced around the skill of an individual, but still requires good teamwork and cooperation to win games. you can technically still \"carry\" as certain characters, but even if your individual skill is amazing, you won't win unless you work with the team. in TF2, an individual could carry their team to victory in a non-competitive scenario. one sniper who hits all of their important shots could carry the team hard enough to win the game. in paladins, you could have 50 kills and 2 deaths but still lose the game because the team simply didn't work together. in overwatch, if you don't play by the meta; you're almost always guaranteed to lose. overwatch also relies heavily on teamwork, to the point where even players who have never touched the game before could still win games by simply working together. there are no \"carries\" in overwatch, and the game is simply reliant on teamwork and having a good handle on characters that work for the meta.  if you enjoy working as a team, overwatch's competitive scene is definitely the way to go. if you enjoy simply carrying your team, TF2 is your way. a perfect blend between them, in my opinion - would be paladins. it's wicked fun, it's free, and you can meet some wicked people. the game is also blessed with having a community and developer group that care and constantly update the game, which is something that TF2 didn't have, which is the main reason why i left it.","hours":112.4}
{"funny_percent":0.0963302752293578,"helpful_percent":0.7275768402384405,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW TL;DR at bottom.  While Paladins draws comparisons to another game that takes inspiration from both the rosters of unique characters with specialized abilities from the MOBA genre, as well as Team Fortress 2's slick, oldschool and stylized FPS look and feel, Paladins comes out on a different end of the same pond.  Paladins is a free-to-play Hero Shooter that has a large objective-focus, an arena-shooter-feel, low time-to-kill, can run on potatoes but also looks good on higher graphics, and as any objective-based FPS, your teammates really want to run all snipers.  Characters The characters are varied, and all of the ones I've played so far (a bit over half the roster) have been fun to play, which is unusual for me for any games with large selections of characters. There's even horizontal progression and you can easily customize your heroes out with your own loadouts, letting you tweak and customize them to play how you'd like them to. There are heroes to play that are very focused in one area, or heroes that are quite good at dual purposes (Pip and Waifu!). There's a character style for everyone:  if you like aiming (Cassie, Kinessa, Androxus), or you like not aiming (Drogoz I suppose) if you like sneaky times (Skye) if you like being tanky (Ferrrrrnando) if you like minisentries (Barik) if you am Groot (Groot -- Grover) if you're lonely and you've always dreamed of your very own WAIFU (Waifu... fine her name is Ying technically) if you want to press a button for a gauranteed pentakill (Skye) or perhaps if you like killing half of the players in the game repeatedly and healing the other half (also repeatedly) while you solo the objective and turn people into CHICKENS (Pip), there's that too.  Gameplay The gameplay itself is very fast and fluid, and the maps offer a variety of ways to flank yet at the same time focusing players through chokepoints that create tense team battles and last stands. The two game modes that are currently out offer different styles of maps as well, with Siege being generally smaller and more focused, and Payload having larger maps with sprawling flank routes. Hit detection feels very good most of the time, though much of this can be attributed to that everything has really large hitboxes.  TEAMMATES Y R U DO THIS?! The game is ridiculously fun, but much of your gameplay will be dragged down simply by your teammates. This isn't a Paladins problem, just any game that has objectives in it. If you like playing the objective, well, you're going to have to do it for your team. Like playing flank or sniper? Well you have to also be tank and take the point. Like playing support? Well you're going to have to take the point AND do all of the damage for your team, because even though the hitboxes are the size of a Lost Planet alien thus making sniping trivially ridiculously easy, your 4 flankers and snipers on your team can't kill a single person without you doing most of the work. It'd be nicer to have a large amount of incentive to take objectives, as well as make it glaringly obvious, but until then I'd recommend brining a friend or four with you.  Business Model Let's get this clear: the game is really generous. As a gamer I'd say almost too generous, at least until there's more of, well, everything. You can get any hero you want and get them decked out in a full custom loadout by only playing a few games. You can get cosmetics (mostly recolors) also through the in-game currency, or get better ones that are actually pretty unique and awesome from the myriad of promotions and giveaways. Almost half of the heroes are free straight up, and they're all good ones. The game has progression somewhat, but it's just so... fair and easy. We need more things to get! I assume this will be remedied soon though, as the last update already added a ton of new stuff.  Developers and Content Finally, the developers and the development.  I think this explains everything right here:  YouTube™ Video: VOD for the Open Beta 34 Patch (WAIFU + Payload) [21/09/16]  Views: 4,880 I do not own any of this, You can find it all on: www.Twitch.tv/PaladinsGame If you are liking the content do consider liking the content and in you are feeling very generous, do consider...   The devs are pretty fun guys and do talk on the subreddit as well. Hi-Rez has both a good and bad past, but their last entry Smite is still going quite strong as far as I know, and now they have Paladins which is their largest yet.  The content in the game right now is much better with the last update, which doubled the game modes to 2, added new maps, a new hero, and lots of things were polished. If we keep seeing updates like these, then the game will be in even better shape in not too long.  TL;DR: With its objective-based gameplay, the amount of people playing snipers; its refined, quick-to-kill, fluid arena shooter feel; and its sense of accessible but customizable progression, as well as its huge accessibility in being only a 4gb download and being entirely free to play, this game fills its own unique spot in a sprouting game genre and right now is a really, really good time to hop into it. I think it's a more different game than you think that I know that you think that I think that you do. ","hours":224.5}
{"funny_percent":0.05333333333333334,"helpful_percent":0.645526295689114,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Pros: - Free to Play (no pay to win. pay just for crystals to buy skins and another cosmetics, unlocking another champions, and chest of course if you don't want grinding too much for gold and essence) - More than 25 champions with different abilities you can play with. - Constant update, sometimes with new champion and new cosmetics item in it - Painful yet Fun grinding (if you on early level or below level 10 and don't want to spend some money yet, it will be painful at first to get gold to buy new champions, cards loadout, legendary cards, etc. But as you play more and more games you will get more and more gold. 1 match sometimes just take about 7 minutes to 30 minutes at max) Updated: in OB51, grinding intensified to get more gold. - Unique gameplay because 1 people to another playing with same champion can have different loadout and legendary card to suit their playstyle  Cons : - Sometimes, bad matchmaking. You can get paired up with low level player, no border, below level 5 champions when the enemy team with all above level 5, some with plat, diamond, or even master border in it. and vice versa - As time goes on, you will find this 3 type of players (chance you will meet this type of player maybe 1/10 matches) :  You will find some toxic player (bad mouth, trash talk,etc), that will harass you sometimes, and sometimes they are very bad at playing and elim than you or your whole team... You will find several troll player... that just roaming around the map and dont help team to win those match You will find some players who dont care about what champion positions that team needed most (like front line, support, damage, flank) - You will got mixed feeling when playing this game. You will got more stressful if you got paired with bad team and got losing streak. Or You will got enjoyment if you can pubstomping another team. The first 1 with biggest probability to happen - No Online gaming is pure with no cheater or hacker... chance you will find those cheater or hacker maybe 1/35 matches  Final Thought: - Did I recommend this game? Yes, because this game will give you at least more than 10 hours (or hundreds of hours) enjoyment of gaming experience. And it's free to play, no risk to try and play this game. - Toxicity level? Hmm, it's free to play game. Expect some mid to high toxicity level. Everyone can play it (underage, child, childish, etc.) - With almost 700 hours total playtime. Maybe I will consider to buy Founder Pack as my thanks to the developers (It just about 19.99 dollar full price, if there is steam sale, the price would be below that. Compare with Overwatch standard and origin edition that cost 39.99 and 59.99 dollar each) - Updated: I decided to buy Overwatch, and yes they are similar game genre but not exactly same (and I must admit how fluid OW animation and graphics are, and enjoying OW more in recent weeks. Sorry Paladins). And I must admit again, Paladins took inspiration from Blizzard more in recent patches in term of character(s). What make paladins excel to me is their huge hitbox. You don't need good aim for most champions (newbies friendly). Just shot near head and got some crazy headshot. (Tested on kinessa, I can registered a shot to maldamba when he using slither or Drogoz when he gliding in the air with WYRM jets legendary (you can see about paladins huge hitbox here thanks to Daniel Berry video:  YouTube™ Video: Hitboxes in Paladins [Please read description]  Views: 61,847 I misrepresented what the hitboxes are in this video. We should not compare hitboxes from the training mode to a live multiplayer match. . And in OW, using Widowmaker, you really need good aim","hours":732.3}
{"funny_percent":0.10204081632653061,"helpful_percent":0.995779779415688,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This game is fun, The BETA is F2P... Go ahead and try it as it can run on low end systems.  Players who enjoyed games such as Team Fortress2 should have no problem jumping into this game. An Overwatch style of gameplay but does not take things too seriously.  The characters could be fleshed out more as sometimes you feel like you are playing \"the Flanker\" or \"The Support\" instead of playing as Skye or Ying  Still in Beta at the time of this review so this review is subject to change, I like where the devs are headed with this and I plan to play it for many long hours.","hours":67.7}
{"funny_percent":0.06589147286821706,"helpful_percent":0.9056075630440517,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW A lot of people keeps on comparing this game to Overwatch. I'm not against them, I used to compare this to Overwatch as well. But after spending a couple of hours in it, this game doesn't feel like Overwatch at all. Yeah sure the heroes seem like the same in Overwatch, but they don't feel the same. And I may agree with the other reviews that Paladins actually require more skill than what it looks. Some examples may include the differences between Torbjorn, Engineer, and Barik. Between having 2 turrets that increases your damage by a bunch or having a turret that does the killing for you. Also despite the fact of how many times this game got called as an Overwatch rip off. Can't we all just call it \"Poor Man's Overwatch\"? It just sounds a lot friendlier that way. Now that's all for my introduction, let's make a quick run down on the what to love and what to hate in Paladins.  -----  [PROS] Skill Demanding. As mentioned, this game's gameplay revolves around the player's skill on the game and you can't win with merely just luck and spamming your abilities. You gotta do somethin' bout' that objective, bro.  Unique gamemode: Seige is a gamemode in Paladins which is basically Payload and King of the Hill mixed into one. Both teams will have to fight for the Middle point to determine who shall be the Attacker and who shall be the Defender.   Fast Farming. The game may not provide all the heroes in the beginning available to play without having to farm gold to be able to purchase them, but the game is pretty generous in giving gold coins. I was able to unlock all of them with a rough estimate of below 5 - 6 hours of gameplay (may or may not exclude queue waiting time, match loading, testing heroes in the Shooting Range, and randomly idling in the main menu.)  Why the farming? Well, unless if you're a lazy poop, and just bought the Founder's Pack for the sake of saving your effort of having to farm for the heroes, skip this. But the farming of gold to buy the heroes is a great way of letting players stick around for a bit. And to make sure that the players don't get easily overwhelmed with the amount of available heroes at once.   I do so agree with the game's very famous title: \"Poor Man's Overwatch.\"   Very fast paced gameplay. There's a very good reason why they provide you with horses every time you respawn.   Being able to customize your heroes' abilities using those card thingies in the loadout, also help make the gameplay less monotonous -----  [CONS] Pretty crappy community at times.  Lazy skin designs. (Not all though.) *EDIT They're releasing rare skins now! Gon' get me dat Grohk Shrek skin. Shrehk ( *3*)  Damn chests always give duplicates. >:(  Very limited maps to play on (for now)  Experienced mildly rare cases of server disconnects.  \"TIME'S TICKING!\"  *EDIT   Competitive Queue time takes years.  Cheeky Devs only allowed the emotes to be obtained through chests. >:( you have no idea how much I want that Fernando emote.  -----  Overall, Paladins is a game worth your attention. Not because it's similar to Overwatch, but because it actually has fresh surprises in store. Yes, I highly recommend this game, give it a go.   You can add me for referrals if you want bonuses. I want bonuses too lol:   Have a good one~!    *EDIT   Please do take note that the game has a noticeable red colored BETA tag slapped on the title. And for regulars, it should be pretty self-explanatory about what it means.","hours":84}
{"funny_percent":1.9632446134347274,"helpful_percent":0.944995112282841,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW underwatch","hours":2.1}
{"funny_percent":0.7839721254355401,"helpful_percent":0.9207871722711112,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Overwatch for poor people. it is quite fun and plays well","hours":10.7}
{"funny_percent":0.08053691275167785,"helpful_percent":0.7487017383730599,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW When I first played this I thought it was just another overwatch clone. Although it does draw a lot of similarities to overwatch, it is unique in its own way.   One of the most unique aspects is the card system, you can customize heroes to play differently based on your own playstyle. You can mix and match cards to have your version of a character play completely different than someone else's.   Most of my hours are on the ps4 so it's not really reflective here. It's a quick to learn game that you can pick up very easy. Community is very active as well. Never takes me long to find a game at all. Like overwatch there's no story, besides character back stories. But this is 2017, and multi-player based games are the trend, no story is needed.","hours":293.5}
{"funny_percent":0.06936416184971098,"helpful_percent":0.6279745823823053,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Is this game similiar to Overwatch? Yes Are the game mechanics similiar? Yes Do champions play similiar? Yes Is it Overwatch? No Overwatch has 6vs6 while you play 5vs5 in Paladins In Paladins you get to buy stat boosts (similiar to Items in Mobas) which boost your stats like Movement Speed, Lifesteal, Cooldown Reduction etc. So you can adjust your build based on the enemy team comb for every game. You can also adjust your core Character build sort of like a mastery system where you can increase the range of certain abilities, reduce their cooldowns, or raise the durability of certain abilities. (every character got different masteries) The System requirements for Paladins are also way lower than the specs of Overwatch. Which means you can even play it with your cheapo friends who can't afford a good Computer, or Overwatch in general since it's f2p. PS: You also get free Cash currency just for logging in. So if there's some skins you like, you can just save up and get them for free instead of spending Cash.","hours":277.2}
{"funny_percent":0.2,"helpful_percent":0.6371204069348406,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Great game with room to improve. If the devs balance out all the \"Champions\" and keep adding more content not involving only skins it could be a huge sucess. For those saying cards are \"Pay to win\" since you can unlock them with pocket change (You also have the option of using gold you get for playing casual.) honestly, default sets on most \"champions\" work the best. You can claim this game is a clone of others but in the end only one question matters, did you enjoy it? If so, great! If not...well I suppose it may not be for you. I mean other than that...not much to say about it. It's free, you have nothing to lose but a \"bit\" of time.","hours":2164.2}
{"funny_percent":0.14583333333333334,"helpful_percent":0.7657408416698198,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW With the devs now releasing new content in a bi-weekly basis, this game has a lot of potential. Here are some reasons why: 1-Its free to play, with optional microtransactions and DLC. The paid content is pretty good but not too good to make the game pay to win. They have a NO-P2W philosophy. 2-Its not so heavy in resources. It could run in most toasters/microwaves. 3-The card decks and items systems. Every champion has a pre-built deck that you can use in game, but you can collect more cards to build better decks. These cards will grant a small boost to your abilities, its up to you which ones you will use and how to arrange them. Before a round starts and while respawning, you can buy items to enhance your performance as well. The items are quite simple and universal, but they'll help you a lot in the late game. Items can be bought and upgraded with credits, credits can be earned by doing any significant action in game. 4-Its heavily supported by e-Sports. Paladins is becoming quite popular lastly, everybody wants a piece of It. 5-Without the ability to swap characters/classes mid-game, a feature that most games in this genre have, Paladins brings a whole new different meta based on thoughtful decisions to make hard counters.  There are still few downsides tho, which I'll mention now. -Its still in beta, which means that every once in a while we may find bugs, funny ones, annoying ones. The best we can do is to report them and wait for the devs response. -The Essence system is kind of grindy at the moment, may be a hassle for new players. Dont worry tho, the devs actually hear It and are planning some adjustments to It soon. Besides Paladins is quite active in the social media(YT, Twitch, Twitter, etc), you may be able to grab some cool stuff if you get lucky, even a Founders Pack, which will soften the grind a bit. Edit: recently they made the Essence more accesible, a step in the right direction.  So in conclusion, if you like games like this, you should def play it. However if you are not a Big fan of bugs and stuff, you may have to wait until its finished, probably in 2018.  P.S. they have horses that you can use to reach the objective, a nice touch imo.","hours":815.3}
{"funny_percent":0.10526315789473684,"helpful_percent":0.9012959750390181,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Sooooooooo This game is pretty bloody amazing, to be honest.  Inb4 \"But muh Overwatches\"  I have Overwatch. I know. Overwatch too, is amazing. But it doesn't take away anything from this game.  I've played almost 20 hours by this point, pretty much always a premade, loved every second of it.  I saw only one cheater in that time, and it was a kid that had '2004' in his name and used one of the Hitscan weaponed characters. We still managed to kill him, at least once.   The gameplay just *feels* right, you have a 5v5 with players choosing their characters pre match in a lobby of sorts.  Capture the objective, you get 1 point. A payload cart spawns, push it all the way to the enemy base, you get another point. Fail to do so, and the score is 1:1. First to 4 points wins. Most matches take around... 10-15 minutes- ish.   There's a variety of characters to choose from, but keep in mind, that you get only half of them at the start.  \"But that's such a pay to win aspect of games, how could it possibly be good????!1?1one?\" Here's the jist, unlockables. You can use in game currency and unlock them. 5000 coins per one character, and 7500 for the newest one that comes out.  From the start, you have 8 (I believe so, at least) of the possible 18 characters.  The ingame currency keeps rolling in so fast, you'll be buying a new character after every third game or so, dependant on how well you do. You can also use the currency to buy skins and voice packs and whatnot for your favourite characters.  There's another currency though, but that's the currency you pay for, and seeing as you're reading this in search for a free game, I doubt you wish to spend money on it.   So yeah, 4 'classes', Tanks, Front-liners, Supports, and Flanks, each with their own different ultimates and skills, and just play styles in general, 5v5 default game mode, no switching characters during a match, daily login rewards, easy unlockables, an interesting inventory (Well, loadout) system that turns the game around, fun (Hell, addictive) gameplay, and obviously, the most important one, friend matchmaking.   As I've said already, I own Overwatch, and they're two different games with each having a twist of it's own.  Think Terraria VS Minecraft.  I love the both of them, and if you yourself are searching for a good FPS/Overwatch shaped game to fill a hole in your heart, search no more.  Keep in mind, if you play solo, the first five levels you play WITH people, AGAINST bots. So don't shrug this game off as it having an idiotic playerbase, your first few games aren't going to keep being the same after you play against real people. Ooh, and one last thing- The competitive matchmaking is apparently really awful, MMranking wise. It just takes a long time to climb, but you can fall instantly. So if there are any bad parts, that's one of them.","hours":36}
{"funny_percent":0.08421052631578947,"helpful_percent":0.8105179457445625,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW NOTE: I made this review for my english class, so pls give me some feedback to improve :)) tyy  I'm not gonna lie, Paladins is a game that is very similar to overwatch. With the rapid success of Overwatch, it is clear to see why people would try to mimic this game. Although the games are similar, they aren’t exactly the same. Like Overwatch, Paladins is an action packed first person shooter with various playable characters. The main difference would be that Paladins’ story focuses on a more medieval time era instead of the more futuristic and scientific one that Overwatch follows. It is clear that the developers(Hi-rez) wanted Paladins to be it’s own identity and not a comparison to something else. They focused on improving the aspects of the genre which Overwatch ignored. Doing so, paid off. Paladins offers a greater range of playstyles that the players can enjoy, AND, best of all, it’s completely free.   My first experiences with the game were very enjoyable. The game had easy-to-learn, hard-to-master controls which made me a little more invested in the game. You can either practice your aiming against bots in the game’s training room, or you can try to fight against other players in the ranked or unranked online matchmaking. The matchmaking queue time are pretty quick and each game lasts around 15 minutes. With over 120 hours into the game in the past month, I think it’s safe to say that I’m pretty addicted to the game.  The developers are doing an amazing job at maintaining the game and providing the players with new content frequently. The fact that they’ve made such a great game for free, shows how much effort they’ve put into it. If you’re ever bored at home, and would like a quick game to invest a little bit of your time into daily, show Hi-Rez some love, and download Paladins.    ","hours":205.2}
{"funny_percent":0.18791946308724833,"helpful_percent":0.6487039003889629,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW + Free + Fun + Fast Match Server + Easy to play + Low cost DLC (Promo Founder Pack) + PvP until you reach level 5 ^_^ thanks for comment + SEA server ^_^ love it  - No VAC server, because rumor alot people using aimbot \"who know ¯\\_(ツ)_/¯ \"","hours":9.3}
{"funny_percent":0.08333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.9838850905888734,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Really Fun To Play w/your friend . recommended for free games","hours":13.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7927182500612788,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW VVGG","hours":721.6}
{"funny_percent":0.15889830508474576,"helpful_percent":0.8318059891712655,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Paladins is to Overwatch, What Overwatch is to Global Agenda, What Global Agenda is to TF2, What TF2 is to Quake.  Everyone shut up and enjoy the game already, if we cared about unoriginal ideas - the Witcher 3 wouldn't be GOTY.  But yes, the game is fun -- and rather quick paced. Matches only take ~10min total.","hours":56.8}
{"funny_percent":0.034482758620689655,"helpful_percent":0.6540647533251424,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW An incredibly fun game. While some aspects and (earlier) characters may resemble Overwatch, It has a lot of individuality too. In Overwatch (as some of you may know) when you die you can change which hero to use. This results in a clusterf*ck of counterswapping which can ruin the game. While I like Overwatch's style and more polished aesthetic, Paladins avoids this clusterf*ck by having a different system. During the matches you are rewarded for doing what your class is meant to do. Frontliners are rewarded for spending time on the point. Supports for healing. Damagers for damaging. Flanks for dealing killing blows. These rewards come in the form of credits which can be spent on special match only perks which can reduce the healing enemies recieve from their supports, increase the healing allies recieve, increase ally damage, decrease enemy damage, etc. This allows you to avoid the counterswapping but still change the game in ways that can affect the outcome of the match. I feel that this is a better system as it results in less stalemates and makes the round more dynamic to the champions being used. Another pro of Paladins is the card based loadout system. This allows you to define your characters playstyle in up to 6 different ways. Every champion has a set of cards that enhance abilities by reducing their cooldown, or giving you increased speed or damage during or after their use. This means you can have 2 different versions of Jenos, for example. One that focuses on his healing abilities and another that focuses on offensive maneouvers. Overwatch and Paladins are both great games and I would never proclaim one to be above the other. Overwatch has better visuals and lore (something that is non existent in Paladins), while Paladins has (in my opinion) better gameplay due to the loadout and credit systems. So lets stop all the hate between the fanbases. After all, they have both clearly drawn inspiration from TF2, another favourite game of mine. If you have never played Paladins, TF2 or Overwatch, I highly recommend all 3. While they all have upsides and downsides, they are all great games.","hours":204.7}
{"funny_percent":0.03365384615384615,"helpful_percent":0.8603095605141878,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I'd recommend this game to those who are honestly tired of Overwatch. Lets talk about the game first.  Paldins in my opinion is a FirstPersonShooter with a lot of MOBA aspects, more MOBA aspects than Overwatch. For example in competetive play you get to ban heroes like in actual MOBA while in Overwatch it doesnt have that sort of concept. In Overwatch the community is way more toxic than Paladins, no one cusses you out after a loss (atleast in my expiriences). In Overwatch every character is the same, and not in the way that you are thinking. In Overwatch every McCree is the same and every Mercy, Zenyatta, Phara, Dva, etc. is the same. In Paladins however you have the option to make your champoin different with the card system Hi-Rez has made. And the absolute one thing I love about the game is the fact theres rarely any one shot or two shot function. In Overwatch almost every hero can one shot you, leading to short gun fights while in Paladins ttheres more action since theres more health and basically everyone is a threat. The horses in Paladins also help to get to the action quicker unlike Overwatch where you could use your abilities to get there faster but thats a waste. Now people complain about Paladins because of its \"glitches\" and \"bugs\". Well ofcourse theres bugs and glitches, its in its beta stage. While in Overwatch people alwasy say a hero is broken and I never let it slide because Overwatch is a fully developed game and its honestly not fun for me anymore. Almost every hero has damage written all over it, including Mercy with her rework coming. As much as I hate to say it if Blizzard doesnt do something like add a new healer or a new defensive tank and just keep adding damage then all I see is a Call Of Duty with some \"special abilities\" sprinkled into the game.  Overall Paladins is an amazing and fun game, sure it has its downsides with some bugs and glitches here and there but its in its beta stage, the full game has yet to be realeased so thats why everytime something happens that looks fishy I let it slide because, again, its a beta.  Thank You for reading and have a nice day. :)","hours":40.8}
{"funny_percent":0.4594594594594595,"helpful_percent":0.9831864497686039,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW A poor man's overwatch. Which is good, because I am poor.  Game founders pack is worth the $13. If one chest is 50 crystals and you get x20 chest which is 1000 crystals. 800 crystals is $15. You also get every champion (character) and upcoming champions (characters) you also get a character customization skin (1) and a horse mount (1). Insanely good deal for $13.  Player referal {LINK REMOVED}","hours":108.8}
{"funny_percent":0.2360655737704918,"helpful_percent":0.6018490395232348,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Is Paladins a fun and good game? Yes it is! Is Overwatch better than this game? WHO ♥♥♥♥ING CARES?! It doesn't matter which game is better. Both Overwatch and Paladins are good games and are genuinely fun to play. I admit Overwatch has a lot more polish on its content, but that's mainly because Blizzard clearly has a much bigger budget. I was just sick and tired of people saying Overwatch is the best game ever and nothing else matters. My point is that Paladins IS a fun game and I would recommend playing it; even if you have Overwatch. I'm not saying which game is better, mainly that's down to any individual's perspective.","hours":268.7}
{"funny_percent":0.1111111111111111,"helpful_percent":0.8738142668872817,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Paladins is quite the game. It is a hero shooter in the vein of Valves' Team Fortress 2 whilst also drawing MOBA like elements from games such as Hi-Rez studios' very own Smite (such as the locking in of characters and more tactical gameplay). What sets Paladins apart however, is its card system which allows you to augment your character to better fit your style of play. For example, I like to rely on my turrets as Barik to not only provide offence but also support me when I am in close proximity to them to give me a small dose of extra healing.  There are tiers of cards in the game: Loadouts and Items  Loadouts are set-up pre game in a champions screen. These decks help you to establish how you’re going to play said champion in that match.  Items were previously called ‘Burn Cards’ (hence their appearance) and are there to help you to counter what the enemy team is doing. If they have a lot of healing on their team you can buy Cauterize to cut down how much they can heal for, or say you’re taking a lot of damage from AoE shots then you could equip Blast Shields to reduce the damage taken. These cards can also be upgraded by spending additional credits on them to enhance their abilities.  The game has a very stylised look with flatter colours, almost Dishonored like in style but with more depth. This covers both the champions and the environments, they both look very nice and compliment each other a lot.  Music was rescored in Closed Beta 26 and it's very nice. It plays along with what is happening in the game at any specific time and becomes more intense as the objective is being completed with slight variations for if your team is successful or the enemy team. The music works very well with adding to the amazing atmosphere of the game  Gameplay feels tight and responsive meaning that you know what the champion is going to do and that they have some physical mass within the world. Most of the weapons feel very satisfying to use, both in sound and visuals like something is happening. Very nice.  In summary, Paladins is a fast paced and fun game to play either alone or with friends. You’re sure to have an excellent time:  Section\tOut of 10 Graphics\t7 Music\t10 Gameplay\t10 Total\t9  Additional: The founders pack is really worth it if you've been playing for a while. I paid £16.99 for it back in March and I havn't looked back since. With an estimated time of around 400 hours put into this game, it's certainly given me more than any other multiplayer game ever has and it's still in Closed Beta. Although Hi-Rez have, in my opinion, made some interesting decisions recently and throughout the course of the games development it has helped to draw more people in as people I knew who didn't like Paladins of old, love Paladins of new and at the end of the day, that's what it's all about. Having a good time with your mates.","hours":369}
{"funny_percent":0.09103840682788052,"helpful_percent":0.7798807025117294,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Yes, I have Overwatch too.  \"Some people have asked us about why we 'copy' the overwatch classes. Here is a bit more clarification: This is more of a reddit response, but I can no longer post on reddit) Games are inspired by other games, especially since there are a limited number of options in some genres like FPS games. Some people will not stop the spam about where Paladins got most of it’s inspiration from (Global Agenda in the case of Paladins). Paladins is most often compared to Overwatch, and while Overwatch is a great game it’s not where Paladins got it’s inspiration (although we do reference it now since it’s in the same genre). Here is a bit of background to give you a better sense of where Valve developed Team fortress 2 in 2007, widely believed to be the first new generation hero based shooter game (Obviously there was Team Fortress first, Tribes, and many other types of FPS games before TF2) Hi-Rez developed Global Agenda and released in 2010 (development started 2005). Global Agenda major inspirations were City of Heros, Team Fortress 2, and Tribes. Paladins was started late in 2013 as a reboot to Global Agenda PvP. Overwatch was announced by blizzard at the end of 2014 and released 2016 Some basic comparisons: Overwatch offers 3 game modes; Escort, Control, Assault. All three game modes were available in both TF2 and Global Agenda (along with many other game modes) TF2: https://wiki.teamfortress.com/wiki/List_of_game_modes Global Agenda: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Global_Agenda Ultimate system was found in both TF2 and Global Agenda. TF2 has one class (Medic) with an ‘Ultimate’ that builds up https://wiki.teamfortress.com/wiki/%C3%9CberCharge Global Agenda has class based ‘ultimates’ with buildups known as team boosts (8 different ultimates) http://globalagenda.wikia.com/wiki/Boost Here are some class examples in Overwatch, you can find similar references for almost all hero abilities in Overwatch within TF2, GA, and popular games like Smite/Dota/CoD/etc. Rocket Launcher Class: TF2 (2007) - Soldier Class with Rocket Launcher https://wiki.teamfortress.com/wiki/Soldier Global Agenda (2010) - Assault class with Jetpack and Rocket Launcher  YouTube™ Video: Global Agenda - PvP Headhunter Assault  Views: 3,754 Global Agenda 1.4 Mercenary PvP Game Mode: Breach Map: BeachHead - Defender Not many kills.. but I have a load of Roamer videos on my PC, but thought i'd upload myself using a different weapon for a... Overwatch (2015) - Pharah with Jetpack and Rocket Launcher Sniper Class: TF2 (2007) - Sniper with zoom and power up https://wiki.teamfortress.com/wiki/Sniper Global Agenda (2010) - Sniper with zoom, power up, poison mine, and an enemy wall hack ultimate  YouTube™ Video: Global Agenda Sniper Recon  Views: 6,177 -this video is protected by the fair use act (US Constitutional law Section 107) Sniping in GA Check out my other 3 vids Overwatch (2015) - Widowmaker Sniper with zoom, power up, poison mine, and an enemy wall hack ultimate Turret Class: TF2 (2007) - Engineer with turret and shotgun https://wiki.teamfortress.com/wiki/Engineer Global Agenda (2010) - Robotics with turret and shotgun and hammer  YouTube™ Video: Turret damage in Global Agenda  Views: 1,347 So after patch 1.35 I played a Merc PvP mission and I (medic) was getting hit for 320 damage, up from 200ish. So I logged on my robo and made this video. Overwatch (2015) - Torbjorn Engineer with turret and shotgun and hammer Healing Medic: TF2 (2007) - Medic with medi gun https://wiki.teamfortress.com/wiki/Medic Global Agenda (2010) - Flying medic with a biofeed back beam https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NlzMxwybNoM \"  Source: https://www.reddit.com/r/Paladins/comments/4jf04o/erez_on_the_paladins_and_overwatch_discussion/  The “Best Use Of A Farm Animal” for The Steam Awards 2016.  Edit: I saw my review mentioned in forums and one of the mentions said I writted \"Yes, I hate Overwatch\", I didn't said that. I prefer Overwatch than Paladins but some people use the argument that who defends Paladins is because don't have Overwatch. Both are goods and the competition between similar products is always good for the customer.","hours":75.9}
{"funny_percent":0.08035714285714286,"helpful_percent":0.8798030345364504,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Alot of people call it an Overwatch clone. Alot of people call Overwatch a Paladins clsone. Both are not true!  The two games do have some similarities, but then again, they both did not invent fps, they both did not invent Assault/Escort/Payload mode, they both did not invent MoBa Style Gameplay and they both did not invent lootboxes for sure.  But what makes both games unique and what gives them both the right to exist?  Well, let me point out some things: (This is more from the PoV of Paladins, as it is a Paladins review)  1. Paladins is fully free 2 play where Overwatch is buy 2 play. So in Paladins you start out with a few free champions and you can unlock more and more over time with ingame credits, additionally you can unlock all the content at once by buying \"the game\" just like if you buy Overwatch.  2. Paladins is played 5v5 where Overwatch is played 6v6, so you could say in Paladins each individual player has a little more responsibility.  3. Paladins has a more tactical feel when selecting your champions compared to Overwatch, as it is possible to change your heroes in Overwatch at any time. To be honest, both systems feel right & wrong at times. Means sometimes you wish you could switch your champion in Paladins during the game when you notice that you misspicked, and vice versa in Overwatch you sometimes have the feeling your opponent can adapt to fast to a specific setup and just change their roster on the fly. I can not really say one of the two systems is better or not, this really comes down to personal taste I guess.  4. Paladins has something that Overwatch does not have, the burn cards and the upgrades. The burn cards give you the possibilitly to select a set of cards altering the abilities of your champions to some extent. The upgrades give you the possibility to boost your champion during the game a bit relying on your own (and your teams) performance, meaning the better you are playing the better upgrades you can get.  5. Paladins lacks map detail and map quantity, where Overwatch really put a lot of love into detail and story hints on the maps, Paladins feels very plain and simple. This does not have to be a straight minus though, as adding more details to maps could go at the expense of performance. There will I am sure Paladins will be releasing more maps so the quantitiy shouldn't be a big bummer.  So in general, I would say the fact that you can not change your champion during a round and you have the possibility to boost your champion with items during a round gives Paladins a little more of a \"MOBA\" feeling compared to Overwatch. Overwatch on the other hand feels more polished and has the Blizzard high standard and balance feel to it.  I do not see a reason why one would have to decide which one is better, I play both and I enjoy both. As Paladins if fully free to play without any drawback, you do not do anything wrong checking this game out and playing a few rounds!  As some requested background information on champion development and dates: https://www.reddit.com/r/Paladins/comments/53qusf/a_brief_history_of_paladins_as_response_to/","hours":17.5}
{"funny_percent":0.06521739130434782,"helpful_percent":0.745206326616499,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Decided to download and try this game via a recommendation from a friend. Haven't looked back since. Having been made by Hi-Rez Studios, the same company that brought us Tribes Ascend and Smite - I knew the game would definately be worth a shot. With both of those other games being fun to play, unique and challenging all at the same time I went into Paladins with high expectations and it delivered. Having watched the first Paladins Invitational Tournament, this game has potential and for a Beta, Early Access, Free To Play I was surprised that pay to win has almost no part of the game.  With all that said, the pros and cons are as follows!  Pros: - Decent Graphics for low end GPUs and PCs - Balanced Gameplay, for every Champion and its special ability there is always another Champion to counter said spcial ability. Champions are categorized into four cateogories, Damage, Front Line, Flank and Support. Each with different play styles yet all are required to function as a team. - Easily Trackable ELO system via websites, to see and track your competitive and casual progress (paladins.guru) - Not a Pay To Win. All Champtions, Cards and abilities are accessable without paying money. Even some skins are accessable without paying money. - Ranking Systems in place with Awards and Steam Achivements - Not Riddled with Hackers - Diverse range of Champions with new content being added - Frequent updates  Cons: - Poor Anticheat (despite the lack of hackers) - Lack of an ingame hacker report system - Competitive Ranks are fairly outdated and grindy to get - Can have a steep learning curve for the first few games, but it is easily learnt after your first few games - Very Small Competitive Play Pool, meaning competitive ques can be long - Still a host of minor bugs that need fixing (not game breaking bugs but annoying bugs) - Lack of a Voice Communication System in game (tpying and voice commands only currently) - Lack of a variety of gamemodes  All in all, for a free to play game - I would recommend it! 8/10","hours":202.8}
{"funny_percent":1.2919896640826873,"helpful_percent":0.6134906242079065,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW It's like Overwatch but without Overwatch.","hours":26.9}
{"funny_percent":0.05084745762711865,"helpful_percent":0.8932293315185851,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Great game backed by devs who listen to their user base. Updates are always improving the game, would def reccomend -b (thumbs up)","hours":36.9}
{"funny_percent":0.38095238095238093,"helpful_percent":0.9487205172845031,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Similar to Overwatch but feels very different. It needs a lot of minor bug fixes, some balancing. It definitely needs some South-East Asia servers but keep in mind it's still in beta. Otherwise its lot of fun. AND it can run on a potato !!!  (☞ﾟヮﾟ)☞ This game has Rocket and Groot from Guardians of the Galaxy. ☜(ﾟヮﾟ☜)  Edit: Got SEA servers and 20+ fps increase and some bug fixes.","hours":319.3}
{"funny_percent":0.18604651162790697,"helpful_percent":0.6282508060157075,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Do you want a very cartoony video game? Do you have a crappy pc and can't run many games well? Do you want to play overwatch but don't want to spend 50$? Then Paladins is the game for you, from what I've played so far, it is a bit like overwatch, but the game designers keep it unique in its own ways, I suggest this game quite strongly, it's fun to play with friends and can lead to some pretty memorable moments","hours":16.4}
{"funny_percent":0.08704061895551257,"helpful_percent":0.9308456119011039,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Overwatch Has the best gamemodes Has the best graphics Has the best servers  Paladins Has more creative and funnier characters Doesn't require a good computer. Gets way more updates than ow.  --------------------------------  I like both games, but I prefer a paladins a little bit more. People spread hate about the game just because they don't like it. I don't like league of legends, but I don't spread hate about it.  --------------------------------  This review is based on my opinion.","hours":336.7}
{"funny_percent":2.44,"helpful_percent":0.9087816695086155,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This game has a \"Champion\" for everyone! You have Soldier 76's Russain cousin, McCreaper, Hanzo's lazy eyed sister, Groot from Guardians of the Galaxy, Fox McCloud, King Bob-omb, Roadhogs pet turtle, Ratchet & Clank, the main character from ReCore and Pharah's pet dragon!  It's pretty good","hours":21.6}
{"funny_percent":0.08333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.884237277432034,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW \"For those people who said this game is a Overwatch ripoff, actually it's not. Both of these game (Overwatch and Paladins) are based and inspired from \"Team Fortress\". I played both of the game (Overwatch and Paladins) and I really enjoyed it..\"","hours":415.7}
{"funny_percent":0.04838709677419355,"helpful_percent":0.9290706222186916,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Few months ago this game was a complete trainwreck. Unbalance, bugs, low performance servers and other stuff were ruining the game. One thing I really like about HiRez is that every patch/update brings a small performance tweak. Patch after patch and this game has reached a level where almot everything is fixed and the game can finally be enjoyed.  Season 1 has launched recently and it has brang a lot of new stuff with it. VIP membership, new currency, new quests and skins and couple more stuff that require a decent amount of grinding.  Paladins has changed over the course of one year to better and currently it is as good as smite, or event better. Definitely giving this one a thumbs up.","hours":60.1}
{"funny_percent":1.4680851063829787,"helpful_percent":0.875129773634836,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW >you pick support >battle starts >Enemy team buys Caut >your flank rush in and die >enemy flank chase after you >you fight back >damages and flank don't protect you >you notice front line is about die so you heal him >front line is staying at willow's dead zone and is being bombarded by enemy damage who has caut >you die >front line die >you respawn >flanks still don't support you >you get called names >you cry.","hours":683.8}
{"funny_percent":0.8809980806142035,"helpful_percent":0.7667350994586681,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Overwatch for poor person like me. GG <3","hours":14.7}
{"funny_percent":2.2142857142857144,"helpful_percent":0.6440235314196877,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I challenged Makoa...","hours":37.5}