{"funny_percent":0.04411764705882353,"helpful_percent":0.7521682808362041,"review":"RIFT is the perfect World of Warcraft clone. It has everything WoW has: Same interface, mechanics, professions, auction house, instances, raids, BGs, item naming, controls, addons on Curse, talents, etc,  It also has the additions that WoW has always needed: - Random Zone Events (constant, running all the time) - Rifts (which appear randomly and massively accros the map) - 1 and 2 players dungeons (Chronicles) - Built-in mechanics that in WoW you need addons (sell grey items, quest guides, etc) - Instant Adventures, which randomly matches you with a bunch of players and then you keep doing infinitely chosen grinding quests in a zone, giving massive EXP and rewards (the best way to level).  But mostly important it has AN AWESOME CHARACTER CLASS AND ROLE CUSTOMIZATION. It's something like \"make your own class and roles\": - Caster DPS-Tank-Healer - Pure caster DPS - Caster and Melee DPS - Caster with Pet DPS and Healer (or just DPS) - Melee Tank with Healing habilities And a LOT MOOOOOOORE.  Regarding the Free to Play aspect of it: you can completely play the game without ever spending a penny, but a few restrictions: - You can't sell on the Auction House - Limited bags (very annoying) - You will have to grind a lot in order to buy mounts  But I was so hooked the first day that I bought the Classic Collector's Pack, unlocking a lot of extras, plus giving 1 month of Patron, which means 40% additional exp = faster leveling. Also, I WANTED to pay, because I was willing to help Trion. This game DESERVES money. It's polished, addicting and well crafted.  If you want to play WoW but aren't willing for a comeback, RIFT is your game!","hours":101.8}
{"funny_percent":0.08839779005524862,"helpful_percent":0.751179991403424,"review":"As I have played this game for 2,700 hours I thought I might as well leave my opinion on it. I'll keep it short and simple.  Pros ☺ + One of the best PvE experiences I've ever had in any game. The world and the raids are extremely dynamic with fun and well-designed boss encounters. + Great community. + There's always something to do. + A neat wardrobe system allowing you to change the looks of your gear if you're not satisfied with how it looks or the pieces don't match. Purely cosmetic feature. This has been taken even further after Nightmare Tide, as you can now directly \"transmog\" any gearpiece including weapons directly from your wardrobe tab. + Many different options when creating your spec due to the soul tree feature. + Seasonal events in which you unlock items such as mounts, clothing/gear, companions and more. + F2P. You CAN buy gear with Gems which cost real money, but in order to do so, you must spend a helluva lot of money. It doesn't really have a negative effect on the game. If you're overall bad at the game/your role, gear won't help you. Guilds don't accept people without experience. The game is just as playable F2P as if you paid for stuff. + Free server transfer every 7 days.  Cons ☹ - Horrible PvP. It's quite unbalanced and gets repetitive pretty fast. - Bad customer support. Can barely assist you due to all their policies. - Spending a lot of time on farming items such as gear pieces and planar essences is necessary in order to succesfully raid. I do however believe this applies to most MMOs. - Too few gear models. Often you'll see the same model used for several different gear pieces with other stats. Just letting you know if you're into cosmetics and looking cool. - The amount of players seems to be decreasing.  So why quit a game you've spent almost 3,000 hours in? It's difficult to give just one reason or explanation. Basically, the fact I had played it for that long might've burnt me out. Other than that, my guild in which we had an awesome community disbanded, and the friends I used to play RIFT with had switched over to other games. Furthermore, I suppose I also just wanted to play other games. I have plenty on Steam and I'm not the type of guy who sticks with just one game forever. I like variation.","hours":2771.5}
{"funny_percent":0.13533834586466165,"helpful_percent":0.7844117860802667,"review":"One of the best MMO's I've played. lvl 1-50; AMAZING! lvl 50-60; Meh lvl 60-65; Realy good  8/10  p.s. Don't buy the DLC's, they're not worth your money","hours":412.7}
{"funny_percent":0.1796875,"helpful_percent":0.947527464544195,"review":"RIFT: F2P?  RIFT is a great game. As of writing this review I have logged almost 4000 hours. Mhmm. Almost four thousand. One hundred and sixty-six days. It's a safe assumption that I'm a veteran player that has been enjoying this game almost since release!  After hearing about it, I was worried about Trions Free To Play buisness model. I am happy to report (contrary to other opinions) that there is NOTHING out of reach in game to non patrons (subscribers) or those that don't want to spend hard earned cash for pixels and code, The F2P system in RIFT is created as such to allow people to purchase Credits using in-game currency. It might take a damn sight longer, but you could get everything, including sub time, just by something as simple as selling artifact collections.  Combat is pretty fun, and the souls/roles (Calling/Class) system is one of the best i have ever experienced in an MMO. Mage tank? Sure! Cleric bard? Done! A Warrior healer? Go for it! Each class is updated by the devs fairly regularly, so all of them are fairly balanced, there are a few exceptions (looking at you Physician...).  The world is huge, and gets bigger with each expansion. It still looks pretty good despite it's three year long run and is still one of my favourite MMOs ever.  TL;DR Great game with a ton of content, entirely free to play, if you don't enjoy it I'll personally refund your free for free.  10/04/17 Edit - Don't bother with this game unless you love spending real money to be able to do anything in the late game. I would certainly still recommend this game to anyone and everyone, just as long as they are not going to want to seriously do the most content and expansion packs, and I am very disappointed with the recent paywall mountian climbing challenge that RIFT has become.","hours":4478.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.767469750351782,"review":"Pros - Great looking game compared to other MMOs. - Mechanics are solid, though it is action bar/button mashing, which may turn off more action oriented players. - LOTS of content. Zone events, world events, dungeons, chronicles, raids, PvP (if you like that), instant adventures, etc etc. - One of the better housing systems - Really good F2P model, with pretty much all content being free aside from things like bag space, some of the souls etc. - Can be a really casual or hard core game. It's pretty flexible in that regard. - Soul system is one of the better \"talent\" systems in MMOs.  Cons - The lore could use some work. It's got the GW2 problem in that the lore is there, just horribly horribly presented, which is sad because it has some pretty cool ideas and concepts. - The shop is sometimes overpriced, and they do sell gear in the shop (albiet incredibly overpriced) which may turn off some people. Also they introduce new \"lockboxes\" all the time which I personally consider a lame version of gambling. - The reputation system is horrible. Almost as bad as WoWs. - The daily system the reputations are tied to get boring VERY fast, however if you want the best enchants for some slots, you need to do it. - If you're a lore junkie, a lot of the world is unfinished. Stories and zones. You'll get disappointed staring at grey blobs on the map that sound cool, but just don't exist, or finishing a story quest chain with far more questions than answers. It makes the world feel unfinished. - The subscription fee is no where near woth paying for. You get some boosters and a weekly gift, along with a discount. It's pretty worthless. If you want to support the game just spend $5 to $15 a month on credits and get something worthwhile. - Because tanking in this game is so unappealing like so many other MMOs, the old problem of tank shortages comes up a lot. It may be a turn off to some people who like to do dungeons.  In the end I would recommend the game. I consider it one of the best MMOs out right now. Definitely one of the best F2P ones.","hours":1353.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8828836915952647,"review":"I've been shaking off the urge to write a review for the F2P MMORPG, Rift, for about a week now, purely because I wanted to write one that did it justice. I'm a little under 200 hours into this game at the time of this review, but despite that, I've barely scatched the surface.   I'll start negative. Rift isn't original, I mean sure, the Rift aspect is, but other than that it's pretty much filled with the same content you'd expect from an MMO. Quests that are uncreative, grinding to level and lots of walking, for the most part. So at this point you might be asking yourself why would you play Rift?  Well, in short, Rift does what other MMOs do, but better. The only exception to this, in my view is the spell effects in game are lacking, they feel a little washed out, but everything else, from killing monsters to presentation is absolutely crisp, responsive and highly polished. The scenery is gorgeous, you'll often find yourself stopping to take screenshots and admire the landscape, and even the monsters. Every area has a totally unique atmosphere and feel to it, each crawling with unique monsters waiting to rip your face off. This brings me to difficulty. Rift isn't easy, at least not compared to other MMOs. The monsters and combat are a lot less forgiving, death comes with a penalty and continous deaths with permantly penalize your stats until you visit a healer. This is a good point though, it makes the grinding aspect of the game more enjoyable, because your attention is focused solely on the game in nail biting moments. Look away for even a few seconds and you could come back to find your body laying on the floor surrounded by dragons.   Rift features a huge amount of content. The map is huge, there are several islands to travel, hundreds and hundreds of quests and a huge range of monsters to be killed by. Raids, Chronicles, Rifts, Hunt Rifts, Bounty Hunting, Warfronts, Instant Adventures, Dungeons and so on. To give a perspect on the amount of content, I list eight game types, in just one, for example Dungeons, there is about 40 dungeons in Rift ranging across across levels from 1 - 60. Once you hit 60, it isn't over. You can prestiege and the game introduces a second XP bar for planer attunement, which unlocks new abilities and skills.   I was lucky enough to be invited to a guild on my first day of playing Rift, and I've stuck with it ever since. Joining a guild, working together to do guild quests and form raids/events is where I have the best fun, as I think a lot of people do also. You're able to completely customize your guild to represent and battle others, all the while earning points that contribute to the leveling tree in the guild. This too unlocks perks such as bonus xp, better loot drops, faster health regeneration, teleporting to guild members and so on.   For those of you who may be collectors, don't worry, Rift has a HUGE amount of collectibles in-game, named \"artifacts\". Artifacts are found around the map, either by exploring or by looting monsters and/or chests. Rift encourages exploration, if you can see it, chances are you can go there. You'll be searching for these hidden artifacts for hours and hours, and when you finally do get the complete set for a particular catagory, you get rewards. Rift always rewards you for your work, and it rewards well.   Professions in Rift are quite in-depth, there's enough to keep you digging away for hours, looking for the materials and crafting the items you need to level. The leveling doesn't take too long, there is 375 levels per skill, currently I've managed to achieve this in Fishing, which took about 30 hours or so, just to give a perspective. There is two types of professions; gathering and crafting, both of which tie into one another. You'll be given useful hints and tips as you progress, suggesting which receipes do craft and for what reasons. There is currently about ten professions, give or take, which include: Minning, Butchering, Fishing, Survival, Outfitting, Foraging, Armoursmithing, Weaponsmiths and so on. All the reciepes and materials you craft can either be used, traded or sold either to NPCs are stores or on the player economy driven Auction House.  This game is ENTIRELY free to play, from level 1 to collecting every item, every piece of armour and maxing every skill. There is no restrictions and no cut out content. There is a store, you're able to purchase some items through real money. This is more of a boost, the items can be obtained in-game and no real world purchases are neccesary or required in any way. Spending credits earns loyalty points, which the more you spend, the more you earn. These unlocks are only available via the loyalty system, but can still be obtained absolutely free. There is an in-game item called \"Rex\", which you can purchase with game currency, then exchange it for both credits to spend in the store, as well as loyalty points to earn items. This means you can obtain everything in Rift, absolutely free.   As far as MMOs go, this one is one of the best. It's free, it's filled with content and it's crisp in every aspect. I highly recommend you give this a go, it's a little slow to start off, but you'll find yourself hooked and playing daily, enjoying every second of it.   9.5/10 - A fantastic MMO that achieves everything it sets out to do in a high quality fashion. -0.5 for the lacking spell visuals, it's minor, but noticable.","hours":843.5}
{"funny_percent":0.06866952789699571,"helpful_percent":0.8571633649767283,"review":"UPDATED!!!   Tried the game myself and I have to say that it is quite addicting or addictive. It has it's ups and downs but course I will say what are cons and pros for this game for YOU to decide if you want to play it or not.  Pros :   + Very huge open world to explore + Nature environment is so beautiful and it feels so alive + Tons of rewardable quests to make you very busy if you're bored + Detailed tutorials + Editable and customazible soul tree to make your character explore and test lots of abilities + Build a house with friends or global players (WoW hasn't done that yet) + Minnion quests fits nicely  + Great mounts and pets (course premium means real cash) + Rifts to close all over the world with great rewards + Kill a monster in new area you get automatic quest (it gets confusing if you're overloaded with 5 or more quests) + Swimming is great with limited breath bar to make underwater quests challenging + Mentoring your character is great and useful if your friends are lower level  + Self buffs that lasts for an hour or more and you can re-buff at any time you like + Some story quests have a great voice acting and it's worth it to listen if you understand the story + If I would choose between WoW and/or RIFT, I would pick up RIFT + Tons of achievements in game (but I prefer STEAM achievement)  + Free To Play + Large player base + Extensive class customization (some classes and creations are limited see cons below) + Rifts create dynamic gameplay + I recommend it for people who don't have annoying wife's ;)  + Addicting from every corner or look of the game no matter where you are + Fishing is so much fun :)  + Crafting & Minning is also in the game but I haven't got the chance to try it + Rewardable events + Friendly player base (well if you are nice and polite) + Auto adventure is great (if you're level 10 you can do level 20+ or higher quests with others that level) + Bonus rifts are unlimited with great rewards if you can beat shown minutes or seconds with tons of players + Great sound and music + Server time is confusing to me and/or others so it's good that you click on that clock to keep an eye on your RL clock. + Weekly updates (thursdays)  I didn't forget about the cons as well and these I HOPE will be gone away in the future (with big hopes)  cons :   - Some class balance issues - Limited races for character creation (you need DLC to unlock limited races for character creation and other premium things) - RIFT: Ultimate Nightmare Edition costs 2 much (139,99€) unless you live a very rich life then go ahead and buy it - Leveling from level 10 or 15 to 65+ gets quite hard as EXP rating slows down unless you want to do repeatable quests and events - Annoying guild requests - There is no actual story because you have quests are all around the huge map  - Aggressive mobs are annoying even if you try to avoid them - No falling damage - Too many aggresive mobs makes it harder to focus on your quests (specialy if there is a whole pack when you're on a quest grind) - No autowalk (although map does show where you need to go) P.S. i don't look for key bidnings i take my time explore yellow area untill i find it - Some players are stealing kills  - No steam achievements (game has it's own but tons of it) - 4 downloadable contents costs way to much (324,96€). Why would I or someone else pay that much if I or somebody else can get all that for 139.99€. And even that costs way to much.   RIFT DLC editions costs too much specialy if you're planning to spend over 325€. Spend 68€ for Guild Wars 2 Digital Deluxe Edtion with game guide on how to level up ANY of race class + you get great useful premium items. I do recommend this game but be warned that play for free has it's limited restrictions unless you want to buy NIGHTMARE EDITION. I am happy enough that is play for free but at least they could do is lower the prices for nightmare edition if it's worthy of getting it.   Some of you may think that some the cons are funny and/or stupid. But that's how I see it. Everyone has it's own taste but I love the game myself so I try and ignore the cons and maybe 1 day i'll buy nightmare edition.  I recommend it but many of you won't like it. If you don't, well there's always uninstall button.","hours":108.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8886161712186278,"review":"Everything that made World of Warcraft great (minus the world itself), Telara is pretty big on its own. Had some great time tinkering builds in the game, dungeons are pretty challenging when you get into them at first. Progression feels very smooth and any time you spend into the game is rewarding.  Polished and neat MMO, very recommended","hours":384.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9174656270016244,"review":"RIFT - a great option for MMO players. Great graphics, beautiful and detailed landscapes. You can customize your character the way you want to by using different souls available within your selected class. For example, take a bit of Pyromancer for offense, a lot of Elementalist for some serious pet capability, and some Chloromancer to heal the party. Rift also has several pre-built options for those who like to get in and play quickly. Beyond all of the systems in the game, the standard things about the game are also very well done. The audio is phenomenal, and the controls are pretty intuitive. Glitches are very infrequent, and minor anyway. Besides, the game is still fairly new so such things are to be expected. Leveling up in this game is not grindy at all. The game frequently keeps you on quests (storyline and otherwise) which level you up as you play the game, rarely (if ever) forcing you to pull off to the side for some time to just level up. The solo-play material is well-handled, as is the group-play material. Gameplay is mostly solid, and the freedom to progress however you wish is definitely a bonus. The quests could benefit from more variety – something Trion should keep in mind for future content updates – and the overarching story is easily lost beneath the endless strings of ‘Collect this!’ and ‘Kill those!’ If you go in expecting total originality, immediate disappointment is sure to follow, but spend some time with the game, and you’ll be impressed with what Trion has to offer. Rift breathes new life into the genre, restoring otherwise tired old concepts and proves success isn’t always built on originality.","hours":184.4}
{"funny_percent":0.04491017964071856,"helpful_percent":0.9648175645815549,"review":"not pay to win as stated by various users, its pay-to-look-good and pay-to-progress-faster, but you cant buy the best slotted gear (w real moneys) and the people who pay cant get better OP items normal people can, its a good example of a good F2P game. (hope i explained myself)","hours":24.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6723342807179418,"review":"Best MMO out there. ..and I've played a lot of them. Always come back to Rift. It has everything that made old WoW fun plus way better graphics. On max settings this game is insanely beautiful. You have the standard 5 man dungeons and group raids but then you also 1 and 2 person chronicles as well. Add to that random Rift raids that appear anywhere in the world that anyone in the area can join as well. Then you have random area events that occur that anyone in the area can help achieve and defeat. Random world boss encounters. Artifact hunting which offer achievements, pets and lore as rewards among other things. Smooth easy to use crafting system. Huge customizable skill tree and class system with mindboggling amount of ways to setup and use your classes and skills.  Fully customizable dimensions(personal houising) with hundreds of items you can find, buy or even make for your dimensions. Which people can even visit and rate your creativity. Guild dimensions as well. I could go on and on. Just level past the starter area tutorial and come join us in this awesome game.","hours":1798.1}
{"funny_percent":0.0821917808219178,"helpful_percent":0.9524432365498683,"review":"★★★★☆ Basically, Rift is a (now) free2play version of WoW. It doesn't try to do anything new, unique, interesting, or better, only slightly different. And while WoW hit a low point with WoD, and a high point with Legion, Rift hasn't really gone anywhere since its release, nearly 6 years ago.  Pro/Con Feature List: + No fall damage + Every class has a pet + Standard MMO everything + Wardrobe collection, wear any gear from any class + Level scaling system helps keep parties together, and content relevant + Choose 3 sub-classes, for playstyle customization, which can be freely changed as you play + Many things have been streamlined, IE: Class trainers and class/soul unlocks have been removed. This is probably the biggest/only change/improvement the game has seen in 6 years.   +- Meh graphics and performance +- Housing system, in a private instance, with clunky placement tools  - Fetch quest simulator - Quest items, gathering points, and collectibles are not shared in coop - Smart targetting is broken, it only selects the target, doesn't followup with the ability - Auto-looting is clunky, there isn't an effective output of the items, and the loot window janks onscreen for a split second","hours":69.3}
{"funny_percent":0.08823529411764706,"helpful_percent":0.7297806564023451,"review":"The best MMO I've played. Really. Only thing I can compare it to is WoW. But there the world is pretty static (or at least was, since I've only played it till WotLK and got bored, so no idea how the things look after the Cataclysm). Here you can get a rift open right above your head if you are (un)lucky enough. There's hardly a way to have nothing to do in this game, since the world changes every minute, bringing forth new challenges.  Of things that I like (concerning gameplay): - tons of quests, including daily crafting ones (helps improving crafting skills a lot) - public group option: now you don't have to put the group up yourself, invite each player separately etc; just one click and you're in with all the group bonuses - invasions!!! Those really bring players together (since it takes quite a lot of running around to fend off all the atacking mobs, seal rifts and defend ward stones in different points of the map at the same time) - fishing (holy cow, I love fishing in this game!) - tons of things-to-do-except-for-standard-MMO-stuff: artifacts hunting, minions quests etc. - it's free; like really - everything u can get with real money, you can get with the in-game currency, it just takes time to gather some coin, but it's doable  Only-one-thing-I-don't-like: - Auction House is not available untill you get Loyalty points - and you can get them only by paying real money or buying one terribly expensive stuff in game (called Rift EXchange); but well, I guess that can be forgiven - that's the only inconvenience I met and it's not really a problem - if the AH was available, REX would be even more expensive since the in-game currency would be easier to get or, in worse case, they would make something else not available to provoke ppl to pay; and one can live without AH, especially if u get into some guild where u can trade with your guildmates (or more like ppl just leave stuff they don't need in guild vault and you just come and get what you need, leaving your thing for others).  Of non-gameplay matters: - graphic is really great (see screenshots); remember it's an MMO (so u tend to have XX players and mobs on the screen running around, casting spells etc.), and it all runs smoothly even though you can find worse models/animations in single-player games; guys who did the optimization for this game did their job really well - also graphics stuff - landscapes are beautiful and vast; sure the map is divided into zones, but it's done neatly and not hurting ones eyes (like suddenly coming out of dense forest into almost-desert plains) - I like how female models are done; I'm always irritaded when I see the \"very-fantasy\" heroines on high heels, with almost no armor and their boobs bigger than their heads; here the female heroes have quite realistic bodies (like one guy said \"hey, I noticed my XXX doesn't wear a bra!\") and if they're supposed to be warriors, they wear a full plate (even my rogue wears a full leather)  So if you like MMOs, this one is definitely worth a shot. It has everything a \"standard\" one should have + some things from itself - and everything done really well.","hours":725.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9281945763229971,"review":"A solid MMO, it takes many of the concepts and mechanics that other MMOs have done right, and further refines them.   There always seems to be something to do, from questing, to rift events.","hours":28.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6077659824978263,"review":"Best Free-To-Play MMORPG on Steam or even in the world. The game is amazing you can do anything without payin♥♥♥♥♥♥in IRL it takes 2-3 hours to get in to it . its just a freakin Masterpiece 9'5/10","hours":76.1}
{"funny_percent":0.06896551724137931,"helpful_percent":0.6441799689024332,"review":"Please note the hours I have put into this game. I've been playing for 3 years now, and I am very particular about MMOs. I also don't like to spend money without justification. The only money I spend in RIFT on a regular basis is when I feel like I want to buy a new mount or some kind of consumable. You don't have to pay anything to enjoy this game or have access to the content.  I have played most of the content solo, but it is much faster and more fun if you have friends to play with you. One of the new features Trion has implemented is sorting new players into starter guilds (defiants or guardians) on each server (shard). This helps new players find other players, so don't stress about being lost.  There are many people in the game, despite other statements in the reviews. Many of the older, larger guilds have died out, but there are lots of smaller, newer ones that are active and growing. Find them and you'll find the happy, thriving player base that makes the game enjoyable.  You don't have to buy the Soul packs to play effective character builds. You don't have to be a patron to get things accomplished -- it just expedites some tasks and adds conveniences. You don't have to have full raid gear. Trion has simplified many facets of the game in the time I have played it, mostly for the betterment and greater enjoyment of the game. If you feel like you DO need to buy the soul packs and expansion goodies, wait until there's a sale. You can get everything you want for a fraction of the price if you don't suffer from instant gratification issues.  Immerse yourself in the story-rich world of Telara. Explore everywhere. Talk to NPCs. Delve into the Achievements to find fun rewards for doing things that aren't in your quest log. I hope to see you in the game!","hours":2308.6}
{"funny_percent":0.10526315789473684,"helpful_percent":0.9261982309806681,"review":"10/10 - The Poor Man’s World Of Warcraft! FREE and Still Good in 2016!  This is one of those reviews that you just can't win. Too many have played; too many have developed concrete opinions. This is just my personal take on the game and how it ranks in the genre as of 2016. The graphics and production values are pretty amazing! If you have played WOW this is certainly one of the closest clones. It's not a copy though; this game definitely has its own identity!  There are massive worlds, PVP, bosses and absolutely everything you would want in an MMORPG. The member base on games like this is always in flux; currently there is an average of 650 players playing at any one time. Not a ton; but still more than at times in the past! If you look at the graphs from the last 5 years you can really see the trends and the conclusion... This game is far from dead. A single DLC or major update can bring any game back to life!  This is my favorite game in the mmorpg genre; granted my computer isn't amazing so I can't effectively play some of the newest games, but this one still has it going on in 2016! I just got off playing WOW for nostalgia’s sake and honestly I prefer this game much more so.   Rift is completely free to play; being a premium member definitely has some serious bonuses like all MMORPGS. The biggest thing patrons receive is more xp, cash and access to the marketplace. The marketplace was a major factor for me in the past; but due to the current member slump it can be difficult to sell on a saturated market anyway. So FREE is still great.  So, if you want to play something extremely enjoyable and very similar to WOW without the subscription... I'll see you in Rift!   I've played this game on and off over the years and every time I come back I appreciate this game more and more. Please be aware that the member base is smaller than some games, and you will have to work a little harder as a free member. I've never spent a dime on this game and it's given me so much content and hours of enjoyment.  Worth $20; my favorite mmorpg by far! It's really free. Fewer players, but still amazing!   Accidently Reviewed Was this review helpful or maybe even not helpful? Either way join this group for more. Free Keys and Reviews weekly!  Steam Group: AccidentlyReviewed    ","hours":221}
{"funny_percent":0.34210526315789475,"helpful_percent":0.7463647401326912,"review":"This is one of the best mmo's I have ever played. I would give it five stars, but steam only has yes or no.","hours":16.2}
{"funny_percent":0.05555555555555555,"helpful_percent":0.7563356823021535,"review":"Up until max level the game has plenty to offer. After max level, if you're not a raiding type there's not a whole lot remaining. Same as all the other games out there so, really, for F2P (not Pay to Play), it's worth playing through to max level on at least one character, if not more.  Crafting can be a grind and I found nothing useful past level 60 and levelling slows significantly.  Events are well done. There are plenty of grindy quests, but also some that are just fun.  Story lines are entertaining and I find myself reading rather than clicking through most of them.  Solo is easy. Duo is fun. Group I don't really know about - I prefer solo or duo.  Gear is kind of blah. There's not a lot of variety, though it can be changed up with dyes.  Mentoring is a good system. You're not boxed in to playing within your level. At level 70 you can mentor down to level 12 to play with a pal, if you so wish. This is a boon during the aforementioned events that often require the completed objective net a player experience. It can be a crux, too, because players tend to overwhelm lower level areas to get through events quickly. Either way, it's a somewhat unique system that opens the playing field.  Artifacts. I'm addicted. I can play the game for hours searching for these little gems. I once got myself into a seemingly impossible situation in EverQuest (yes, I'm showing my gaming age) because I just Had to see what was way Up There. Thankfully a kindly higher level ranger came along to rescue me. He died four times doing so, but still . . . chivalry exists. I digress . . . artifacts Reward the curious souls for wiggling their way into nooks and crannies and figuring out apparent insurmountable jumps. I've often had to /stuck but the rewards are greater than the punishment.  Dimensions. When you have nothing else to do, or if you're the creative sort, dimensions offer a distraction. There are some über creative players out there. Every time I think I've figured out something nifty to do in my dimension, I visit someone else's and wander around in awe at their out-of-the-box thinking abilities. The sky is Literally the limit. Don't have enough room to build out? Build Up. And up. And up and up and up up up. Okay, the sky isn't literally the limit, because there is a cap on the number of items a player can place; however, that can be expanded several times to allow for more building genius to occur.  I play for the artifacts. I'll be honest. :D","hours":474.6}
{"funny_percent":0.13333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.9217004724015851,"review":"This review is current as of 12/5/16.  Where do I start? I've had loads of fun playing RIFT (about 5k hours, just over half through Steam) and do not regret a single moment. I started playing during Beta 1 (though I had proximity to the game's development prior), and from the Eye of Regulos to Ashenfell, it's been a wild ride. The rifts are what make the game world different from other MMOs. They're dynamic events that can appear throughout a zone in a number of locations - in 6 different types as well as variations of the rifts within those types. I still have yet to finish all of the planar achievements, and it's been almost 6 years.  Then there's the soul system. While some souls are paid for (3 per class/calling), the combinations you can make with them are only limited by your imagination. There is an argument to be made that the cookie-cutter specs you can find on the official forums are currently better, and that does detract from the original \"any spec, any time\" aspect of the game. Some specs are simply not viable in endgame content, like Druid was for clerics for a long time.  The community appears at first to be a mixed bag, but the chat is filled with a vocal minority of trolls. Ignore them and carry on, and you'll find that there are plenty of nice and welcoming players in the game. I'd suggest turning off the CrossEvents channel if you don't care for what political rant there is that week.  PvE content? There's no shortage of that - between questing, rifts, planar invasions, dungeons, and raids (past, current, or upcoming), I doubt you'd find a way to finish all of it amazingly fast. Even with store experience boosts.  PvP - it's always been a bit lacking, but it really took a hard hit after Nightmare Tide (Patch 3.0), when PvP-specific gear was removed. Low-level warfronts (Rift's battleground system) take upwards of an hour or two to get a queue to pop, and Conquest has been dead for a while (until it gets updated with current rewards). However, max-level warfronts are still alive and kicking and have a different meta to them than PvE content as far as specs go.  And the big question - is Rift P2W?   Nope. Rift, if I had to sum it up, is \"pay-to-progress-faster\", but nothing will ever give you a solid gameplay advantage long-term in Rift other than the loyalty system (extra mount speed is nothing to sniff at). Most of what is in the store is either fluff or used to get alts to max level (currently 70) faster. With Starfall Prophecy, all content after level 65 is locked unless you buy the expansion pack, but a trial to 65 out of 70 levels with nothing to lose on the way is amazing, compared to other MMOs that limit you to level 20.  There is, however, a significant time investment required - in the form of reputation grinds (I use the term loosely), gearing up through the various tiers (which reset every expansion pack), and money in general (Planar Fragments in Starfall Prophecy being a particularly hard platinum sink). Don't let that deter you from the game - after all, none of these time-investment-specific requirements apply to the level 1-65 content, which is entirely free with no timegating!  If you have more questions about the game, you can find me on the North America region servers: Sarynnah@Faeblight.","hours":2886.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.898786867480743,"review":"It's a lot like WoW before Kung Fu Panda and Pokemon took a steaming♥♥♥♥♥♥on it. The visuals are great, supersampling for the higher end computers. Interesting dungeons, with tons of things to distract you from the monotony of questing. Good crafting. Decent community, though every Shard has it's trolls. It just wouldn't be an MMO without them.  Only real complaint about the game is slightly sluggish combat. The developers went for style before fluidity, but with any luck that will be improved with the next expansion.  Best of all, completely free to play and yes there are features that are held back from you as a free player (eg. limited bag slots, character slots), but that doesn't really harm the experience and the game is completely playable, and enjoyable in it's entirety without spending a penny.","hours":486.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7086643050916391,"review":"If you enjoy non-twitch MMORPGs then this is *THE* MMO for you. It gathers together the best ideas and mechanics from the past decade of the genre, added a unique mechinc with Rifts and the result is a very fun to play MMO packed with so much content that you always have something to do.  The F2P system is probably the best you'll find in this genre. It is definitly *NOT* P2W and with being able to buy REX for in game platinum, you can purchase anything in the shop. Even a subscription can be purchased with nothing but in-game currency exchanged for REX other players sell.  If you were ever a fan of games like EQ, DAoC, AC, WoW, WAR and the like, you'll love this game. It is the pinnicle of what we all came to know as an MMORPG. Rift doesn't really break new ground. It's not a terribly innovative game. BUT, what it does do, it does very well. It has scratched my gameplay itch in every possible area for that familiar MMORPG feel I've come to love.","hours":613.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7812770387474104,"review":"Game industry is quite big and we have many \"aka\" World of Warcraft games to play. I've spend in WoW too much time and ny now i can tell you that RIFT is in many ways best so far. Nothing personal, I'm respecting WoW, i really do. But RIFT is installed on my PC, not WoW. (Use to play WoW since Europe beta for several years. Im old_school player of 41 years old)  You have uniqe and pleasant game play, by uniq i mean - uniq. No more today's MMORPG games can give you so many options in one game at once. I'm dont wanna make any propoganda here who is number 1 and who is not and why is that. What i can advise is just to spend some time on youtube videos comparing RIFT and WoW and I'm sure you'll get the difference.  If you love to play MMORPG and in love with kinda WoW game, my advise to you - Just Try RIFT.  (Its free to play now, with available donation bonuses in game)","hours":18.7}
{"funny_percent":2.857142857142857,"helpful_percent":0.9458419532086377,"review":"Meh. Its worth a try.","hours":3886.8}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9311883617475495,"review":"Best F2P MMO on the market, hands down. High level of polish, tons of content and fast updates. If you are burned out on Theme Park MMO's this game may not suit you very well, however.","hours":310.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8611094779597825,"review":"Rift great game, it is very addictive. There are many similarities with World of Warcraft, but also there are its own chips. For example, the system of faults is very interesting and quite fun:) I can Not say that in this game there donation so that you could use the auction you will need to put money open additional slots under the bag, slots characters, open-defined classes and milestones developments. If you love MMORPG I suggest you sit down to play this game!","hours":192}
{"funny_percent":0.07964601769911504,"helpful_percent":0.7028616096476167,"review":"RIFT is a complete and full-featured MMO experience. It gots high-quality graphics and high playerbase with an acceptable file size, which is approximately 19GB.  Pros : +Extensive class customization. +Rifts create dynamic gameplay. +Life skills system. +Large playerbase. +High quality graphics. +Detailed mounts. Cons : -Some access locked only to buy-to-play players. -Hard to play for newbies, complex gameplay. -Seems like a World of W**craft copy.","hours":41.2}
{"funny_percent":0.48148148148148145,"helpful_percent":0.7795629844290556,"review":"10/10  Playstyle is a bit similiar to WOW, and other mmos, but the more you play the more you will see where it differs. Very good, very good mix of things to do; dimensions (player/guild housing), PVP, IA's (questing in groups, no boring solo grind-- unless you like solo... I sometimes do :D), dungeons, story sagas, and more. Try it out, it's free after all. You do NOT have to pay a dime, they have REX, which is bought on the Auction House for platinum.   So, there is a way to get credits with in game currency. Ignore those who cry about how this game sucks you dry, they know NOT what they speak, not understanding business within the game industry and/or want everything and anything for absolutely FREEEE. Of course they have to try and make some RL money off of some players to keep the game afloat, but it doesn't mean it has to be you giving them money (leave that to people like me, who would rather spend money on this game, than a movie.) That being said, yes, yes you can buy gear and awesome things with real money (by spending credits--also available in the very active auction house in the forms of REX)  Community is very good, has very minimal trolling. (tip: set your settings to not read low level chat, it's where the few, but funny trolls with god complexes lurk...) XD  Buy the wings and dye them pink, dance for money, and watch them sing. They will point fingers at you, but you don't care. They are peasants with dull, dull hair.  This is your time to shine.  Give it a shot.  <3","hours":860.8}
{"funny_percent":0.25,"helpful_percent":0.8987200054215125,"review":"First, I have played this game for much longer hours than what it says on my Steam account. I played this game for a couple years on another launcher and occasionally play it off Stream.  Now one can say it is much like World of Warcraft I guess. I never played Warcraft so I don't really know personally. But some would say this game has some dated graphics. They are exagguating the graphics being old. I recenly played LOTRO last night for the hell of it, and that game has some dated graphics looking vary late 90s to 2000s. Rift is a pretty game. And apparently cloths is optional. Really you can run around the game with nothing but underwear on, male or female, which can be funny. But just don't pretend to be groping or snu-snuing another character without ther permission and in public. Get a dimension(room) already! Had this happen to me a few times when playing a famale character and no means no. Show my lady some more respect than that. XD  It's not too basic of an MMO. No in this game, it will allow you to play multiple roles when playing a single class. Example, play a rouge, and that rouge depending on soul build can ether melee or range damage, even tank, support with buffs, and even heal ether single or group. Each class can do any role based on how you build your character's soul. And you can also switch preset builds during gameplay in raids PVP PVE and whatever. But of course some of these roles in each class is behind a pay wall. Like the Mage's Arbiter or the Warrior's Liberator soul. But some of those from experience is well worth it like the Rouge's tactician where you get to use technology like flamethrowers. I did pay some money in this game time to time, and so far not disappointed. My only buyer's grief here is for the mage's stuff. Most of that save for the latest I haven't bought is mostly melee fighting. I like my mage traditionally ranged.  Also it does have a mentoring/sidkicking system. What this does is give the player the ability to control their physical level. So if you want to play in a low level area but don't want to be so overpowered, just adjust your level to the area from your portrait menu. Or if you want to team up with a high level player for a high level quest, you could sidrkick with them at their level. It is a good system, but too bad not everyone uses this. Example an event in a low level area can end too quickly if a high level player kills the boss in seconds. But you know damn well they can mentor down and play fairly for everyone else not at that level yet. For the sake of argument, that's the point of the mentoring system there.  Everything else is pretty basic. Go out, do quests, grind, get stuff, and ether show off or have a more easier time playing. It's not for everybody, but it is what it is there.  Now I would be carefull buying things from this game admittingly. It's mostly fair business enough, but example allot of the cosmetic clothing in their cash store can be earned in game and permanently too. Learned this the hard DOH way. Also, this game is still all free to play today. Yes some were correct that they did charge for the new expansion at first. Then they made it optional to buy it with points granted from subscribing. Then they decided to give it out for free for a weekend. And finally a week or so after this, they made that content free for all. So yes their business ethics is chaotic, and again be careful doing business here because of this. But today it is all still free to play. Just next time they have an expansion and charge for it, ether buy it or just wait until they make it all free anyway.  The social aspect is okay. Most are ether quiet or friendly enough. I'm usually pretty quiet too but will talk if invited and in the mood. No different from other MMOs there. There are the occasional trolls and bullies of course. Had one harass me about my character's looks, another bringing up some vauge argument about porn, and another annoyed me with raid marks who I think just got angry when I got lagging problems as the group's healer. Okay I'm sorry, but this is not appropriate behavior for something out of my control. And there's the goofballs and nuff said there. But the antisocial behavior is not vary high. I been to MMOs and other games where this can get a bit high like in Star Trek Online, Gears of War 2, or Halo Reach, and do I got stories from those like the awkward little boy singing about oral and a degenerate player with the word \"wolf\" in his gamertag with daddy issues and who I witness sexually harassing a woman. All this over Xbox Live. That was disgusting behavior, but it happened. But Rift is not this bad. It may sometimes happen, but not this bad.  The only thing I truly hate about this game personally is the lore. I usually ignore the lore, but here's what I understand about the two side to chose from, guardians and defiants. And politics and religion warning here even though this is part of the game. I understand this maybe why some would stop playing the game completely.  The Guardians is a faction that embrases a group of gods known as the \"Vigil\", and your character aligned to them would be resurrected by them as an \"Ascended\". In a way, they are suppose to be the good guys although sometimes I don't know. And there's the Defiants. A faction run by a spoiled brat of a scientist who would rather use technology to solve problems than religion. But he's not at all a good guy. He helped create the problem the game is based on, rifts, and he does engage in experimentations that purposefully harms people pacifically Ascendeds. This is just fantasy, but reality would be more complicated. Not all religious people are good natured, and not all scientists are amoral borderline psychopaths who torture or kill people to advance science. Some religious people are dangerously aggressive, and plenty of real athiest scientists can be more moraly good than certain religious crowds. But I can see the message in the lore. Religion good. Science bad. But as said, the game isn't too bad at all when the lore is ignored. I don't take my moral standings seriously all the time.  In all, I can still recommend this game. Just be careful with the business, ignore the lore as even I agree it is a bit questionable, and ignore the occassional troll or bully that comes along. Like any MMO out there. And I do try to keep my reviews as objective and bias free as possible.","hours":20.4}
{"funny_percent":0.1,"helpful_percent":0.8904411341886618,"review":"Pros: -It's free. You can't go wrong with free games. Get bored? Leave for as long as you want and come back whenever you want. You don't have to worry about paying for a month or so of game time when you only want to play for a day. -Thanks to Rift Exchanges, which people sell for in game money, you can buy everything including expansions without paying a single penny. -You can transfer characters between shards (servers) for free, but there is a limit to how many you can do in a week. -You can temporarily move the character you're playing to another shard without limit, though you will return once you log out of that character. -If you have no friends who play this that you can quest with, you can just join \"instant adventures\" which will automatically join you to a raid group. You will even be brought up or down to the level of the group's quests temporarily. -If you want to go back and do a certain dungeon but you're too high of a level to normally be in a group, the game will automatically bring you down to the level of that group. -This game is in no way pay to win. Everything you can buy you can earn the equivalent of. No one class is really better than another. Also like I said above, you can buy absolutely everything with in game money.  Cons: -Not a lot of people are low level so you might have a hard time finding a group in your level range, and it is very hard to find a group to do dungeons with. -That's about it.","hours":190.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6242853622958383,"review":"Although many MMO's have come out after the rise of WoW and it's slow descent, this one stands out of the crowd.I have tried MANY other MMO's, but not live up to this one in comparison. Although Rift is F2P, do not be mistaken. It is not pay to win. IS a large game, so I cannot cover it all, but I will cover a good portion.   Pros: Introduces rifts, something unique to this MMO.has a very special talent/skill tree system that varies greatly and can be used many different ways and still be effective.  Cons:Races aren't extremely different=Poor Machinima abilities.Being inside cities on anything but low or minimum graphics will kill your average computer.  Don't get me wrong, I love Rift but it isn't my favorite all time MMO, my favorite is what WoW used to be but Rift is the best MMO around currently.","hours":271.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7688082172178545,"review":"I dont rly write reviews, but I need to share my thoughts about Rift. A lot of ppl say its a cheap copy of WoW. Well, i can tell you that its not true, at all. A lot of ppl complain that they get ban for no reason. Again its not true at all. Rift is an awesome game. Its free to play and because of that you cant just compare with a game who have Subscription. Rift has a lot of unique system. Like how class system works, how rift sistem works e.t.c ( if you are interesed, you will find more and more in the game ). Here, when you start to play, you will feel that \"Adventure \" . An adventure that in a lot of MMORG is lost. Personaly i rly think that Rift is a good game,i like it, i play it, in the future i will buy from them if i want something. ( and if you have a little problem with money, worry not, Trion offers REX, a consumable which you can buy DLC with, classes etc. all that with game money! I wish you a great day ! ","hours":35.7}
{"funny_percent":0.05555555555555555,"helpful_percent":0.7434751982055692,"review":"Nice alternative to WoW, it really is F2P if you dont want to have extra things like Auction House, but you really can play the game for free and reach max level and get the best gear all for free. In addition you can farm hard to get enough currency (highest being Platinum or plat for short) and buy an item called a REX thats a $10 item, making you no longer F2P. Its has some features that make it unique like the rifts, and having a dimension (a house basically) which is friendly to RPers, (I just duel people in my dimension to avoid lag or interuptions for anyone) Pretty good. (IMO just spend 10 bucks to get to the point where youre allowed to use the AH, then make millions of in game currency, worth it)","hours":250.5}
{"funny_percent":0.08333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.7418268841805432,"review":"The game is pretty nice looking! The character creation is nice. Overall a great game. But the questing is very bland.  ","hours":2.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9943131439180094,"review":"This game has its glitches but not as many as other mmorpgs do. This game has a good \"play with friends\" system. There is also many MANY different ways to play this game. I know I don't have as many hours as other people do but i highly recommend this game 10/10 gerberts.","hours":86.1}
{"funny_percent":0.125,"helpful_percent":0.960636890196562,"review":"This is actually the best \"free\" mmorpg, it is like a \"little\" (one of the biggest free mmo) wow, you have months and months of game and a lot of things to do: pvp, dungeons, raids, quests, adventures... i highly recommend it","hours":192.2}
{"funny_percent":0.07692307692307693,"helpful_percent":0.945113184783758,"review":"Huge F2P MMORPG, if you like an expensive world and lots of choices like different classes that can have multiple specs at the same time, switching on the fly from a tank to a DPS to a support. Huge dynamic open world battles that affect the hole zone and are lots of fun. If you like hundreds of quest and interesting story and dialog this will suit you. You can use addons to tweak the game to your liking even further. Definitely worth a look as its now F2P and not Pay to Win.","hours":428.8}
{"funny_percent":0.13043478260869565,"helpful_percent":0.6965939636666104,"review":"6/10 I started playing RIFT before it was even full release. (Like many I used the executable/patcher to launch outside of steam even after release. Until I had to reinstall when SL patching messed up, so... that piddly 1k is time after SL only.)  RIFT 'was' an awesome game with good support and a REALLY awesome community. The game had alot of elements, which were in it, were going to be in it, some of which no other MMO's had at the time. In my eyes it was akin to an attempt at the 'Next Generation' of MMO. The game evolved and grew over the first 2 years, it had it's share of bugs and problems, but they worked hard and got things sorted out quickly and fairly. The problems started, when Trion or the development group decided to do an 'expansion', one huge bundle of content to put them far ahead and allow them to evolving the game without having to struggle so much to keep up (Atleast I thought that's why they did it...). Following this decision there was a major slowing of evolution/updates/content. It was expected, and yet it had bad results. During the 'Lull' in content, alot of players fell away and some guilds either merged or died out. When the 'Storm Legion' expansion finally came out, it did help revitalize the community 'somewhat', but with the 'X was the first to' seekers and the massive hunger resultant from the break in content, alot of new content got chewed through by some in a matter of days. After the initial burst of players, the population went back to, or maybe even more low than before, with even more guilds merging or dissolving. Trion decided then to re-vitalize the player base by going Free-to-play. (*Demise music plays)  About 3 days after the game went FTP the general chat went from asking for an extra for a raid or new players asking for help to something akin to trolls vs gold spammers. Sure there was idle chat and such before, but nowhere near the same magnitude. ...Going into a random when guildies are offline, meant having an overgeared party that doesn't know/use mechanics and ignores when told, won't use interrupts or help skills out of fear of DPS loss or who knows what and then rages at the healer when they die from their stupidity despite being over geared. Sure you get good parties too, but it went from more like 4/5 with 1 of the 4 being a 'learning' party, to 2/3 with 1 undergear, 1 overgear and 1 drop/lame, to like 1/6 with 1 being OP and playing right and 5/6 still being OP, but being macro only players who only do DPS and can't move or insist on having 1 only macro with built in 'dispel magic' type abilities and still stand still, both of which have primary skill called 'rage healer or tank and DC'.   Well, PUGS always had atleast a small gamble element, and there were still plenty of 'good community'. A mature player might have to scroll through 50 lines of text to find a question and 'whisper' a new player to help, but the help was still there. I stayed for a while and played in some of the decent guilds, but even some of those had troubles from bad players joining and having to be kicked or just getting freebies then leaving. I know of many large kind/good/fun guilds that ended up moving to Badlands, Star Wars MMO's and who knows what else. (I think one even went back to WOW...)  FTP has not wrecked the game. All the higher tier items and things are not buyable, and there is still some good guilds with nice/mature people in them around, so that raiding can still be fun. Sadly, although the FTP element has been implemented reasonably, I can ohonestly say the move has certainty affected the type of in-game community that's there unfavourably. I would not be surprised if the servers ended up reduced to only 1 or 2.   Support in the same boat as FTP hasn't wrecked the game or made it unplayable, but has certainly affected the community in a negative way. Trion changed the handling/personnel of the game around the time of the SL expansion (Not long after release I think it was...) The original support was almost instantaneous in-game and up to 48 hrs outside of, and was very fair in checking logs and being strict but properly compensating and helping. The support now seems more like 72hrs in-game and 1-2weeks outside of (I had patron status if that makes any difference -> AVID trader AH user/trader). And the support became more like talking to a telesales/outsourced helpdesk or the like where you couldn't even be sure if they even knew what the game was called, let alone help or not give 'bad robot' responses. The first big event with a death boss was a good example of this. When I tried to get to the boss it was SO chunky and the game crashed about 2 mins after I finally got there. Sounds bad.... but Trion did patches and within a day or two the event was back up and running I got to participate with only minimal lag during the boss fight. Players were also compensated if they attended the initial event just incase they couldn't re-attend on short notice. From what I heard the last time a big crash occured recently in RIFT, they just rolled back the servers 6 days instead of fixing. :O I wasn't on at the time, but well... I can totally understand some of the angst that's there. If your an original player who loved the game for having good support the current level will likely hit you like a truck full of concrete. Having said that, it doesn't wreck the game, but it sure doesn't make you wanna play/pay/support it.  New players be sure to try the game, it has lots of story and content to explore especially if you don't skip the lower levels. ...For old players... RIFT is like any other thing in life that gets broken... it can never go back to the way things were. You either have to put up with the junk that goes with it or just leave it alone...","hours":1077.4}
{"funny_percent":0.03125,"helpful_percent":0.8332199002614444,"review":"4.5/5 RIFT is a free to play MMO with a familiar (Warcraft) feel to it, that does enough to distinguish itself from all the other f2p MMOs out there.  Pros: - The class system has been designed with flexibility in mind. Every class has the ability to switch roles, so you could be tanking in a dungeon one minute and doing solo quests as a DPS the next. MMO newbies can play with preset skill-trees to avoid being overwhelmed, whilst MMO veterans can tinker away with custom builds to their heart's content.  - Dynamic zone events. You can be quietly questing in a zone, when suddenly, rifts open up spawning mobs and eventually, the event boss. This encourages everyone in a zone to band together to close rifts and take down the boss, which is great fun.  - How you choose to level up is really flexible. Do quests, instant adventures (kill/fetch quests with other players), zone events or dungeons.  - RIFT is still actively being developed. Version 3.0 is due soon (end of Otober 2014)  - Once you hit lvl 50, a new skill tree system (planar attunement) opens up, offering more customisation. A special set of dungeons (Chronicles) designed for 1-2 playes also becomes accessible from lvl 50+.  - If want to try dungeons (designed for 5 players) but haven't got guild friends to join with, you can join a dungeon queue that will automatically match 5 random players together. (Note: the wait time depends on your role, it seems that tanks are in short supply, followed by healers)  Cons:  - Quests can get a bit grindy sometimes; many are of the \"collect 20 of ..\" or \"kill 12 of ...\" variety. However, occasionally you do come across more fun/unusual/interesting/innovative quests, lifting the game above your standard MMO.  - Some zones are not well optimized and FPS will suddenly drop from a smooth 60fps down to 20fps.   - Free players can buy stuff from the auction house but can't sell (although there is a trade chat channel available). It is possible however to use in-game currency (plat) to buy something called REX that another player has paid for using real cash. The REX can be used to unlock the ability to sell in the auction house.  Recommendation: If you want to experience the fun and familiarity of an MMO like Warcraft, but don't want to pay a monthly subscription, then RIFT will provide exactly what you are looking for. It is a well-designed, flexible game ... and did I mention it was free?","hours":96.8}
{"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":0.8353659513625095,"review":"I've been playing RIFT on and off since it's launch back in 2011. At first i was not impressed, it was another WoW-Clone, albeit better then many others currently on the market, but RIFT grew into itself, and turned into one of the best Free to play MMORPG's out there.   Now, before i go any further, i must tell you: RIFT is in no way, shape or form \"Pay to Win\" There's nothing in the game-store that gives anyone an advantage over anyone. If you wanna label RIFT, it's \"Pay to Progress\" and is entirely optional. Everything in-game can be bought and traded with in-game currency called \"Platinum\" It may take a bit of a grind, but everything you may want, you can get without ever spending a buck.  RIFT is your typical tab targeted MMORPG, but with a twist: You have 5 callings, Warrior, Mage, Cleric, Rogue and Primalist, These callings have each 9 souls you can play around with, creating your own playstyle, wanna be a tank with offheals? Done. Wanna be a melee Mage? Done. Each class has it's own resources, Mana, Energy, Power and Fury. And each class has it's own resource management ontop of class specific combo points.  It also has fun PvP events, An awesome playerhousing system, alot of zone puzzles, treasure cairns, fun places to explore, a great RP community, and an awesome, although small-ish playerbase. We may be a small community, but everyone who joins feels welcome right away. There's also a bunch of us that offer information, free bags, a nice chat and silly jokes to keep the chats alive, and make newbies feel welcome.  Overall RIFT is a great game, but even great games have a downside: The latest expansion added an unfair and boring RNG element with Planar Fragments, you can compare this to Gems in other games, where it adds extra stats to boost your tanking/healing/dps. The fragments you get are tottaly random, and may or may not help you, depending on their stats and there's a chance you get the wrong stat once you upgrade it, making the entire fragment useless. Another problem the game has currently, is that the queue's for lowbie PvP and PvE take a good chunk of time. Mostly because newbies don't bother with healing/support/tanking souls, and when everyone plays as a dps, you won't get dungeons. On the other hand, there's a system called \"Instant Adventures\" or as we call them \"IA's\" Which are server wide raid events, across the entire world. It gives a good chunk of exp till level 60, but barely give anything else, leaving you vunerable once you start questing 60+.  TL;DR: Rift is an overall great game, with alot to offer. fun PvP events, A grand playerhousing, zone puzzles, treasure cairns and a great game for those who enjoy exploring. It's entirely \"Free to Play\" and doesn't cost you a dime. While the community is small, it's one of the greatest out there. It's free, so you got nothing to lose!  I rate this game a 8 out of 10. Amazing game with lots to offer.  Hope to see you in-game soon, and have fun exploring!  -Odd Not.","hours":1405.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9110071786873274,"review":"This game is simply amazing. 5 Stars","hours":82.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6657913015584633,"review":"A++ Best Alternative to WOW","hours":219.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8705319306664063,"review":"RIFT is a solid alternative to World of Warcraft. I've tried other free-to-play MMOs (Tera to name one), but they felt really linear and they wern't structured that well (if that makes any sense). Not RIFT. This game has everything you'd expect from an MMO. Dungeons, various PVP battles, and (my favorite thing about RIFT) RIFT has A LOT of world wide random events that encourages every player to come together and conquor. RIFT is by no means a pay-to-win game either. Everyone has access to everything. The only limitations free-to-players have is only having two character slots, a currency cap of 2500 platinum (which is a lot), and not being allowed to create auctions (which may sound bad to some, but there's trade chats, no player-to-player trading restrictions, plus you can earn that privilage by buying REX from players with in game currency). I highly, hightly encourage you to at least try it.","hours":130.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7412038074631158,"review":"Rift is by far one of my favorite MMORPG games I have played in many years. It has a great leveling system and a customizable abilities and skill point tree system. The skill points can be placed in one of 3 catagories and most classes have 6 sub classes to choose from. It has your standard experience point leveling system and a good crafting system. The mobs are fairly self explanitory just like most MMO's are. Now the community is a little slow. There isn't a gigantic community like WoW but there are some really good people and great guilds out there. The graphics are good and the gameplay is great also. It has a customizable UI/HUD and many positive points. Now I do have a few problems with the game. But that is with all mmo's. The mob spawn rate is a little fast for the amount of travel for the missions. Also it is now A FtP game and that makes it a little bias cause we as free players are stuck with lower stuff and I understand that but there should be a way for us to get the same stuff without a sub. All in all a fantastic game i recommend to everyone","hours":38.7}
{"funny_percent":0.017543859649122806,"helpful_percent":0.9460653401224024,"review":"This game is basically World of Warcraft with debatably cooler graphics and some tricks (like world events) layered on top. And no panda bears that I've seen yet. I'm very impressed that it's free to play. I've only played ~6 hours, but for the first 20 levels (at least) there is plenty for a solo player to do.  If you like that style of third person, triggered-action style controls, there is no reason NOT to play Rift.  As a criticism, the UI isn't especially intuitive, and it takes a bit of work to figure out how to do things like craft or gather resources, or why things are happening. The lore doesn't seem particularly polished.  Still, I'm having fun running around with a buddy, doing fetch quests, and gearing up. Give it a shot! Nothing to lose but time.","hours":48.1}
{"funny_percent":0.09090909090909091,"helpful_percent":0.9876282960703657,"review":"Alright, well I did handle 1,800h on my own, soo overall I like this game(8/10), just need someone to play with. And if you're like me and have no one to play with or you just started to play this game then dw, yes it'll be hard at times and boring but hey it'll be fun right.","hours":1800.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6276700060343209,"review":"I`m new to the game, so far its a super fun game and the community is good*Not the general chat but thats any MMORPG sadly*! I`ll do a video review of the game but i just wanted to come on here and say at least give it a try :)   I`ve gotten the starfall DLC and cant wait to play the new lands.","hours":296}
{"funny_percent":0.125,"helpful_percent":0.7497373751338068,"review":"I am very difficult when it comes to MMORPG. Don get me wrong WOW apart from the cartoonist graphics has put the bar way way high when it comes to game play and everything else. Problem is that after 7 years of gaming and a ton of money i decided i won't play games with a monthly subscription. I want either free to play games or just buy to play games. After wow it was so hard to find an MMORPG game and i was looking around for months trying all the free to play games or at least free to try games. I wanted a game with a great content , good community and game play like wow but with different elements and different if not better graphics. I found Rift and i tried it. At first it felt a bit strange compared to wow although very similar. I loved the graphics and the game play so i continued (It is free anyway so nothing to lose apart from some of my free time). The more i played the more i loved it until i fell in love with it. Overall it is a great game and it can be perfect. What i didn't like to the point that i can say i hate about it is first the macro thing. I was used to play wow with just 3 to 5 keys where i had all my rotations. Here you can't do that .  Now about the money. It is a fact that if you want the dlcs or the extra packs you have to pay alot money. This things are overpriced. It is also bad marketing. A gamer that respects himself won't pay that money. For example i see that the DLC is about 30 euro and the packs start from 25. If i am going to pay 30 Euro i am expecting not only few more classes. i am expecting a new race, at least 5 more lvls , and new content with at least 10 new dungeons and raids. a DLC or a PACK the way they are in rift shouldn't cost more than 9.99. To tell you the truth they should be 4.99 . And guess what! The company would make more money like this cause almost everyone could and would buy then. More people would start the game and less people would quit. For 30 to 50 euro i am not expecting a pack or a DLC i am expecting a new game or at least a really good and huge expansion . So as not to get me wrong or cheap . I am 41 and spending 50 or 100 or even more for my hobby is nothing but i am expecting equal value. Today i log in to steam feeling i want to spend money on a new game or on an old one. This review came from a man that 9 months ago spent 4.000 euro for a new desktop pc and hotas joystick and pedals just to play Star Citizen. I am angry and sad about Rift because i love it and want to continue play it and see more people play it . In order to have that , The company has to start giving value back for the money they want. Content people !!! CONTENT, make the customers happy. Make things cheap so people will be happy to throw some money for value at you. Today as i sead i wanted to really spend some money in to Rift. Call it shopping therapy if you want, so i logged in to the store looking the DLC and the packs, comparing them looking at the price and the value i am gona get and i didn't buy anything because i was disappointed. I appreciate the fact that it is a free game and people especially younger people that don't have money to spend can enjoy the game up to a good point. I was more than happy to spend about 50 euro so far progressively as i was getting to know the game for things like earring slots, extra bug slots, extra char slots and staff. I was happy to give back to you in the form of money the enjoyment i was getting and i want to continue give you money. I mean 750 happy hours for 50 euro is nothing. Plz help me and give me reasons to give you more money. Revive the game, add meaning full contend and price it low so all that can pay will buy it. The rest wont anyway. Maybe i got it all wrong and you are progressively making content and soon more lvls and continents and dungeons and all that and that content will be for free and for everyone and in that case i am sorry cause i got it wrong but still for the 30 euros you could add a new race for example. Anyway Right or wrong i had to take everything out of my chest. Overall it is a great game and you know what ..now that i am thinking about it i feel alot better and will go back in to the steam store and find a way to spend money in Rift . It might be the DLC or a pack or in game currency as a thank you for everything i got for free so far. Maybe we the people with money to spend can help you keep it free for the people without money.","hours":3076.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.674508709953829,"review":"Product received for free  It's a reasonably good game. It has a story line you can get into and nice combat mechanics. You can happily play on your own or in a group and complete quests or fights both way as well. To me it seems to be relying on the DLC packages a bit too much, but that's just my opinion. It is a good game and should recieve recognition.","hours":69.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6525779883282248,"review":"If you are a fan of Wow you will most likely like this game too. Much like World of Warcraft you take quests from quest givers and it is a MMO game.  You can design your character and how it looks.  Very good graphics and controls for movement.  You can team with others to finish quests.  Very enjoyable game.","hours":162.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7266104408044722,"review":"Awesome MMO, but it is not for everyone. I personally feel this is the best MMO out right now and it is TRULY 100% free-to-play.","hours":37.2}
{"funny_percent":0.1,"helpful_percent":0.6465281453303187,"review":"I play casually and dont spend any money. It's fun enough to keep my interest. Like I said, I play casually like 2-3 hours every couple of days.","hours":421.1}