{"review":"Mayday, mayday, oh stuff it, HEEEEELP...  You've crashed. On a planet. It's a planet made up of wierd and strange things, creatures that up until your arrival quite likely existed in peace and harmony, and then you brought yourself, your mass of crates which have scattered around the landscape, and the teleporters you so desperately need to get back to your now scuffed up transport ship to get out of dodge.   Whilst on the surface the game is very much a case of guns blazing and murder everything in sight, as you dig into the lore and entries of the game, what you'll learn is that the planet was more or less *fine* until the ship crashlanded, spewed it's cargo all over the shop and you, in your size twelves and large caliber weapons, decided to cut a swathe through the landscape to get out.  Congratulations, you are the risk of rain the locals keep talking about. Don't you feel just awesome?  Tightly tuned, finely balanced, class based roguelite gameplay...  Starting the game the first time gives you access to the beginner class - Commando. This class is a good place to learn how to deal with the game, and a balanced set of skills that should see you progress at a reasonable rate. All the unlockable classes are tailored towards specific styles of play, and generally require specialist approaches to get the most out of them. A good example is the enforcer, which is far slower and less mobile than the commando, but due to his riot shield, can essentially soak -ridiculous- quantities of damage from the direction he's facing.  Later classes are even more specialised, opening up classes that work from afar, or specialise in deployables or traps, or have other means of dealing with situations. In short, every class feels unique, and has their own combos and specific ways to work things out. Furthermore, with the items that you can collect, every class will evolve differently based on the drops you find. The Enforcer in one playthrough will be an entirely different Enforcer in the next. Even if there are some items you'll ideally want to grab each time.  The importance of good design and a great soundtrack  The graphics might be pixel art, which by this stage you'd think have been done to death, but on the contrary, the clear, concise design and the very well thought out vision ensure that this game always looks stylish and well presented. This is a game that revels in looking good, and always ensures that the player is in control of what's going on, even when there's a -lot- going on at once.  Combined with the precise and well balanced combat, along with the great sense of atmosphere, is potentially one of the best soundtracks of recent times, going alongside things such as Don't Starve, Deus Ex : Human Revolution, and Really Big Sky. A good soundtrack sells the atmosphere, and in this case it's been captured perfectly, possibly one of the best soundtracks in my library.  Deep replayability and a stellar atmosphere combined  Risk of rain was one of my top picks when I bought it, this has not changed and it still remains one of the greatest games available on steam. Along with the legends like FTL, like Dungeons of Dredmor, Risk of Rain should be considered essential gaming for anyone who wants to get their hands into the genre of \"Roguelites\" that contains things like Spelunky and co.  Verdict : Essential  Writer and columnist for Just Reviews, where you can get similar fine reading material. Join our group, follow our curations, and throw me a like if you would like to keep up to date with our efforts!","hours":7.8,"funny_percent":0.0008944543828264759,"helpful_percent":0.9051878354203936}
{"review":"Not a weather forecasting app.","hours":3.3,"funny_percent":0.015174506828528073,"helpful_percent":0.8555386949924128}
{"review":"Spend 90 minutes on a single run, melt everything in seconds then enemies get to the point where you're killed almost instantly. Cry for 10 minutes, then start a new playthrough. Good times.","hours":41.6,"funny_percent":0.1517509727626459,"helpful_percent":0.9494163424124513}
{"review":"  Risk of Rain is an extremely addictive arcade style 2D platformer shoot-em-up with roguelike elements.  Gameplay consists of dying a lot attempting to reach and activate the stage exit teleporter in each level, there are a total of 6 levels to complete per game before achieving TOTAL VICTORY  Online Co-Op, many characters with their own unique playstyle, randomly generated level layouts, and loads of items keep gameplay fresh and exciting   Gameplay  Tight, responsive controls and enough characters to pick a playstyle that you enjoy make this an incredibly fun and rewarding experience.  Graphics  A charming, simple artstyle with smooth animations makes this game a treat for the eyes.  Sound  An expertly done soundtrack brings a LOT to the table, sound quality is good, sound effects aren't obnoxious.  Story  A very ambigous story, no definite answers are given, but clues are relayed through item logs and monster descriptions.  Multiplayer?  This game features both local and online co-op, the co-op system (especially online) is a bit excruciatingly buggy, but very fun to play with friends.  Fun?  The artstyle, gameplay, and unpredictability of this game make for an extremely enjoyable time.  Category\tScore Gameplay\t10/10 Graphics\t10/10 Sound\t10/10 Story\t10/10 Multiplayer?\tLocal and online co-op. Fun?\tYes! Overall\t10/10 ","hours":180.9,"funny_percent":0.11888111888111888,"helpful_percent":0.9146853146853147}
{"review":"I wish there were more Roguelikes that was on the scale of Risk Of Rain.  What's Risk Of Rain?  Risk Of Rain is a platforming rouglike with it's own interesting universe, easy to understand controls, and crazy gameplay.  This is one of the few games that will help you feel like a god. The amount of power you can gain, from being a lowly survivor of the UES Contact Light that dies from a single bite to walking into rooms and watching the universe collapse every time you press \"Z\".  Every character that you play stands out from each other, having their own attacks, look, and feel. Not ONE character feels underpowered or overpowered compared to the rest.  Although this game doesn't have the absurd number of items like Binding Of Isaac has...what it DOES have is how every item is viable and doesn't completely topple your playstyle over if you get it. While this does mean there aren't many \"weapon changing items\", I find so much joy in even finding a common item, as it brings me one step closer to absolute destruction.  That's the joy I find in this game, it's to get as powerful as possible and go as long as possible. There's a nice story under it all (and good reason as to why the items in the game are even there) and if you really think about what you're doing...  You're the villain of this story, whenever you like it or not. The only way you could be somewhat good is if you blaze through the game as quickly as possible and killing as few as you can. The story's optional, though, and you can read about it when you kill foes in Rainstorm or Monsoon difficulties, since they drop logs at a slightly rare chance.  Almost every level has a artifact hidden in it, but you have to be lucky to roll the version of the level that has it. Every Artifact changes up the rules of the game, and gives interesting changes to it. Like, the lower the health something has (including you) the faster you will run, everything exploding with a shower of Creamator explosions when they die, a random skill of yours locking every minute..there's even one called Command that tosses out most of the RNG of the game and gives you chest drops when you get an item. The chest color is the rarity of the items you recieved, and you can pick whatever item from the item table you please. It's balanced, though, that the window you select items is real time, and you cannot move until you pick an item.  When I mentioned \"easy controls\", this game really does have simple controls. four buttons mapped for your movement, and four buttons mapped for your skills. You can even use a controller.  This game gets interesting when you bring in your pals for co-op, while making it even more chaotic. The game's completely viable solo, but the difficulty becomes interesting in co-op. Do you let your friend take the item drop, or do you snag it for yourself?  There's also a forced item sharing button, which balances out the items for players. Though, me and my friends agree this system is incredibly annoying, so take that with a grain of salt.  The music of the game is an interesting contrast from the chaotic blitzplay of the game. Even the most intense of the soundtrack is actually quite nice music to sleep too.    YouTube™ Video: Risk of Rain Soundtrack  Views: 564,441 Buy the Album: http://chrischristodoulou.bandcamp.com/album/risk-of-rain 00:00 Aurora Borealis 03:55 Arctic Oscillation 10:37 25.3°N 91.7°E 14:55 Chanson d'Automne..   If you want my personal favorite piece from the game, it has to be Surface Tension. It's also a boss track, usually used for the Wandering Vagrant boss.  The bosses in this game will be intimidating and will pose a threat, like any boss will, but as you become stronger, you may be able to start one shotting them..and..as you progress even further, normal foes will be replaced by bosses. Ever faced twelve giant magma worms, three overloading ones, six vagrants, and ten colossi at once?  It's one hell of a good time!  Despite all my praise for the game, though, I do have a gripe about the game. Though, it doesn't bother me too much.  The levels and item count.  The levels will soon feel repetitive, since you will learn their layouts pretty quickly...but at least the levels themselves have different setups. Though it doesn't help that the setups only change the minor places.  The items aren't in a vast quanity, where you will always find new ones...but, hey. Every item is viable to helping you become stronger. I'd rather have this than several items that are \"considered\" low tier and useless.   Overall, this game, albeit not a masterpiece or a gamechanger for everything that comes after it, it's a really fun game that's even one hell of a ride with friends.  And you know what? That's all I want to ask every once in a while. For the fun alone, I'd highly reccomend the game. The characters are colorful and vastly different from each other (along with having a lot of them) the items you can pick up are ALL great, none are trick items or downgrades, the game chugs on to become blitzplay after you start slaying... It's worth the price.  One more thing to mention. Every item in the game itself has a bit of story on it. Some of the Item logs are even begging for their own stories.  I'd play this over Binding Of Isaac anyday.","hours":159.6,"funny_percent":0.06626506024096386,"helpful_percent":0.9156626506024096}
{"review":"I played this game a little. It was fun.","hours":971.4,"funny_percent":1.451543431442929,"helpful_percent":0.7903804737975593}
{"review":"Beautiful, sophisticated, yet brutal. Yes, like your new girlfriend, Risk of Rain is a ball of wonderment and pain.  In this rogue-like platformer, you run around each level trying to find a teleporter. Meanwhile, enemies spawn randomly; killing them gives you gold with which you can open containers with upgrades for your character. Once you find a teleporter, you fight a boss and ultimately move on to the next level.  The catch? The longer you play, the tougher the enemies become! So speed is of the essence as well as quick reflexes and mob management.  The artstyle for this game is pixel based, and it's wonderful how much character these little sprites have! The tiny animations are smooth, and watching an enemy explode into blocks of meat chunks is satisfying.  The music is also fantastic; it's a hauntin track that sounds like a dubstep/trance hybrid one moment and a thumping bass the next.  And the gameplay: oh boy, is this game tough! But you come out of it a better man (or woman) with blistered fingers and a beard on her knuckles (that goes for the women too).  So this game comes highly recommended! There are a lot of achievements/unlockables including new items and classes, so the replay value is truly up there. Do yourself a favor and pick up Risk of Rain!","hours":34.8,"funny_percent":0.003067484662576687,"helpful_percent":0.9570552147239264}
{"review":"Where do you begin with a game like Risk of Rain? It's so new and original, yet so classic and oddly memorable that we can all adapt to it rather quickly while not feeling like we're repeating something playing it. Most \"pixel games\" as they call them I see now are simply normal games... with pixel-y art styles. This is one of those games that actually blends well with the art style, and I wouldn't have it any other way. Let's talk about gameplay for a sec.  Gameplay: Risk of Rain will kill on your first run. If this does not happen, you are probably a carrier of Jesus' will and strength on Earth, because it's pretty dang hard to pick up on your first go. But to help, I'll elaborate on just how NOT to die. You are given the Commando to start out with, and classes like the Bandit, Enforcer, and CHEF will be easy to get early on. Every character has 4 skills, kind of like LoL, except you don't have a basic attack outside of them - They're all you got. Most classes tend to have a movement-enhancing skill in their third slot, and a powerful skill in their fourth. The Commando is no exception. He has 4 basic skills which are very easy to learn and starts with above-average high health to help beginners.  Unlocking Stuff: Unlocking stuff isn't as easy as you would think. You're probably going to start on Drizzle, the easiest game mode. However, if you're a wimp, the game won't save any of your progress (This includes item logs), and no monster logs will drop either. If you want 100% completion, you're going to have to step it up. Most characters are unlocked by doing special things or filling requirements. No surprise there. The Huntress and Mercenary are pretty hard to get, asking for 15 monster logs and 5 game-wins, respectively. But don't worry - You'll get there if you like the game.  Items and YOU: Items are, without a doubt, THE most key tool you need to survive the night. When you start out, you will find items randomly from boss kills, chests, imp vases, shrines, and other places. Chests require money, imp vases require you to hunt down and kill a few frantic imps, shrines are like casinos, and bosses should be obvious - Kill em for good stuff. Most (Keyword - Most) items can stack. A few, like Thallium, can not. This is why the RoR Wiki is your field guide for items here. Items give you various buffs and bonuses, and have the power to make or break you depending on how you use them and your luck with finding items that suit you. Once you start picking up Artifacts, hidden items that you can activate to change gameplay once you die, quit, or win, can alter some things - But I'll let you figure that all out.  Difficulty: There's two ways this game changes difficulty - One, by choosing your difficulty on the character-select screen, and two, by slowly raising it during gameplay at a speed dependant on what difficulty you chose. This makes for very adjustable learning curves that will suit you everywhere. Artifacts can also help or hinder you if you're good at using them or not, for example; The Glass artifact cuts your health to 10%, but gives you a HUGE damage boost (Used to be x5 damage but they nerfed it, I have no idea what it is now - Don't worry, it's still fun as heck if you don't get hit!). Remember to start and progress at a rate that you're comfortable with, or else you might not have as much fun.  Conclusion: Oh yes, this is a game you need. Don't even ask why, just get it. It's 10 bucks. It's awesome. Once you know how to use and abuse the artifacts and characters, you'll pretty much be playing something like a God Simulator with every run, finding new ways to use your characters, match items, and have fun with MULTIPLAYER - That's right, MULTIPLAYER! Also, achievements in the form of READING AND KNOWLEDGE! Also, THE GAME LAUGHS AT YOU WHEN YOU DIE and gives SNARKY REMARKS! The art-style is AMAZING! The music is AMAZING! The gameplay is BONKERS RADICAMAZING TIMES TEN! Just! Get! This! Game!","hours":128.3,"funny_percent":0.056291390728476824,"helpful_percent":0.9172185430463576}
{"review":"I mean, I felt like I was a god. 15+ items, some of them stacked. Then 50 enemies spawned out of nowhere. I tried to run to a better piace for fighting them, and a giant box appeared. \"Press A to inspect\". My thoughts: \"whoa, this could help me out here\" Reality: a boss spawns out of it, it kicks my♥♥♥♥♥and enemies feast on my corpse. Death message: \"That was absolutely your fault.\" At least I died laughing.  11/10 just buy it and play","hours":9,"funny_percent":1.4754098360655739,"helpful_percent":0.889344262295082}
{"review":"Died brutally in a fire with lizardmen surrounding me and stone golems smacking my skull in, with white giants punching my guts into oblivion. Meanwhile, a giant magmaworm is flying around, smacking into me, burning me to death, while I'm already burning, and a green wisp is sniping me from across the map with his green ejaculation.  Death message: \"That was your fault\". Yes, it was my fault I died brutally on my first run. 11/10, more than worth the money.","hours":5.9,"funny_percent":0.25757575757575757,"helpful_percent":0.9696969696969697}
{"review":"This game is great. It has challange, it has diversity, it has high replayability. I'm 100hrs in and still haven't unlocked all items nor mastered all classes.  Pros: -randomized gameplay -challenging (seriously just don't go YOLO, you'll die a lot) -lots of in-game achievements -each class plays differently​ -lots of items so you can try different builds -fun coop -you can add even more challange through artifacts you have to unlock -big levels -endless (there is an ending level but you have the option to go to another level) -really long runs -trading cards  Cons: -setting up for coop might be difficult fore some players, as you need port forwarding to be a host. There are guides about this on the games' forum, but if you still don't understand them, maybe you have a friend who does and you can ask him/her to help you through teamviewer. -I don't have any more cons, but it would have been nice if all of the in-game achievements were on steam as well  I saw some bad reviews pointing at some data loss bug. I had it too, and the devs were really kind to help and found out that it's related to the vcredist packs. It's either one is missing from your computer or it didn't install properly. Just reinstall all vcredists and it should be all ok. It only takes a few minutes. I hope that those who had this problem will see my review.  In the end, i'll give it a 10/10","hours":104.6,"funny_percent":0.00819672131147541,"helpful_percent":0.9754098360655737}
{"review":"The rain it is talking about is your tears.......","hours":20.5,"funny_percent":0.5638665132336018,"helpful_percent":0.7767548906789413}
{"review":"So much better than having a life","hours":173.8,"funny_percent":0.001326259946949602,"helpful_percent":0.7771883289124668}
{"review":"After crashing on a planet you're tasked with a simple set of objectives.  -Survive  -Find the teleporter -Survive some more -Eradicate everything repeat.  For most games this could wear thin and become repetitive rather quickly but that simply isn't the case with this game. When you first play, chances are you will die a bunch without really knowing what to do. You'll unlock something else though and it will get easier over time. Think of this as a survival/horde mode roguelike countra-ish shooter platformer that never gets stale.   Each play through will generally net you either a new power up or unique character class to eviscerate and dismember the various lifeforms of each planet and area. It has a Binding of Isaac feel in a sense that things are swapped and randomized with each play through but you'll always fight the same bosses and end boss/stage. Much like Isaac your power ups stack and you can have some really brutal and devastating combinations by the time you get to the end.  The different classes and characters you unlock all have different and interesting criteria to make them available for use and there is something satisfying in seeing that you have reached a new tier of badassery when you are now plowing through enemies with dual pickaxes or laying down your heavy shield and firing cover shots to keep the wave of enemies at bay. the starting class \"Commando\" is more than suited for the task at hand, especially playing at Drizzle difficulty, but it should be known that every character plays completely different from the next and has a dedicated skill set and pool of abilities.  The bosses as well as the native creatures populating the planet are all aggressive and will swarm you the minute you come within proximity of them. This game also gives you a sense of urgency to complete the planet by steadily spiking the difficulty as the little ticker in the corner continues to count. If you can handle it you can play as long as you want, you can even get all the way to end and start back from the first level with all of your power ups in hand. There is a flexible and open level of choice that allows for revisiting the game and trying different things time and time again.  Risk of Rain comes complete with a somewhat minimalist pixel art style and the characters would be moving dots if the view was pulled out any further but it also helps give the monsters a look of towering giants and puts you in David V Goliath scenario for the duration of your journey. All of this is backed by an amazing and atmospheric soundtrack that will constantly have you nodding your head or getting pumped in rhythm of the beat.   You can get as much as you want out of this game but if you put the time and effort into it, you can squeeze an amazing amount of time and play out of your 9.99. Overall I give this game an 8.8/10 and recommend it to anyone who is a fan of roguelikes, team co op, old school side scrolling platformer shooters, and indie games.","hours":50.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9375}
{"review":"When I bought this I played it eleven hours straight without blinking. Please kill me.","hours":137.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7966101694915254}
{"review":"This game is:  10% luck 20% skill  15% concentrated power of will 5% pleasure 50% pain 100% reason to purchase Risk Of Rain yo","hours":187.4,"funny_percent":1.3820861678004535,"helpful_percent":0.764172335600907}
{"review":"Risk of Rain is an action-platformer with roguelike elements, with some interesting mechanics wich I'll try to explain the best I can.  Even if you start with only one playable character, there're ten of them total, and each one plays differently, thanks to his own four attacks. As time passes, difficulty will increase and enemies will spawn endlessly until you find the teleport, wich makes you fight for one last endurance round; beaten that, you can advance to the next level. Like other games of this genre, you can find active/passive upgrades (like piercing shots, increased defense, missiles and so on), but you can level-up too by collecting experience. An interesting fact is that powerups do stack, so you can have increased effects by collecting more of the same. Once you've completed enough levels, you can choose between replaying them to gain more loot, or going to the final one; you can easily grind more powerups if you want to, but the game can be beaten in less than a hour in a good run. Bear in mind that this is the kind of game where things get bad pretty fast, and you have to start all over again. Pixelated graphics are really good, but sometimes the action on screen become a little too chaotic. Chaos apart, gameplay is overall pretty much solid and fun. The game's soundtrack is AWESOOOOOME, I love it. Also, this game has coop, playing with other people works well and in my opinion some classes are not meant to be played alone.  Reccomended if these features caught your attention, and/or if you have friends to play with. I don't think Risk of Rain is a masterpiece, but it's a really solid game.","hours":33,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9166666666666666}
{"review":"...and so he bought it, and left his humanity behind.","hours":22.4,"funny_percent":0.02004008016032064,"helpful_percent":0.781563126252505}
{"review":"Risk of Rain is pretty addictive due to its simple mechanics but increasing level of difficulty as time passes. You can unlock different classes which mix up the gameplay in fun ways. Really fun game.","hours":9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8042168674698795}
{"review":"RISK OF RAIN. ITEMS GAIN. SEEMS REAL PLAIN. BRINGS THE PAIN. IS INSANE. HURTS LIKE CANE. FINE LIKE GRAIN. HEALTH DOES WANE. ANKLE SPRAIN, KILLING CHAIN. BLOOD DOES STAIN. HURTS MY BRAIN. BEST OF GAME. RISK OF RAIN.","hours":66.5,"funny_percent":1.8738489871086557,"helpful_percent":0.7458563535911602}
{"review":"Roguelikes have exploded as a genre lately, largely due to the number of indie productions out there exploring interesting ways to take an absolutely classic title and bolt new mechanics to it. Games like FTL, Rogue Legacy and Paranautical Activity instantly come to mind, taking randomised areas, crazy power-ups and eternal death as a basis and building them into something new and fresh.  Risk of Rain takes the idea of an impossible Roguelike to new heights. The hook of this 2D action platformer is rather simple: it literally gets harder with each passing second. Immediately the player needs to make a conscious decision: do you grind out the game in the first few minutes when the enemies are few and far between, farming gold and unlocking passive abilities that will help you when you reach the ten minute mark and all hell breaks loose? Or perhaps you want to rush through as many stages as possible before the difficulty curve rises. Risk of Rain is all about risk and reward, and while it doesn't necessarily break genre conventions, it manages to provide a compelling twist on basic mechanics.  Players are given access to a number of characters, each with four unique abilities that will aid them in combat. Each of said abilities has a cool-down timer after use, so learning which character fits your play style, and how they fit in with the rest of your team is imperative for survival. In the beginning you only have access to the assault trooper, but after multiple runs you will slowly unlock a cast of devastating characters that will help you see the game through until the end.  Once you select a character it's game on. You are dropped on a hostile world, filled with enemies. Each enemy killed will net you some gold, which can be spent unlocking chests found in the level, or taking a gamble and spending some at a divine statue. Sometimes this will yield you amazing items, other times it will take your money and laugh at your tears as you received nothing at all. Each time you use one of the statues the cost goes up also, which often had me throwing money away at it three times before I realised I was broke.  There are tons of items throughout Risk of Rain that will give you the upper edge, most of them offering passive buffs against your foes. There are a select number of consumable items you will find along the way that can be used to get yourself out of a tight jam, and there are also some helpful assault and healing drones that you can spend money repairing so they will follow you around and help against the onslaught of enemies. Just like any Roguelike, learning how to use these items in unison is key to survival, and after a dozen or so runs, you will begin to understand how it all fits together.  Each level essentially has the same goal: find and activate the teleporter which will call in a randomised boss fight. The bosses are tough....really bloody tough, and they will definitely give you a run for your money. To make matters worse, the timer is still creeping up towards a harder difficulty, and regular enemies are still spawning into the world, which makes is a cluster of pain and misery. Once the boss has been defeated the enemies stop spawning, you are left to clear the last of them, and then you can teleport to the next level. Before you leave however, you better search for any chests you may have missed, because each time you teleport you will lose your gold.  Risk of Rain keeps you on the edge of your seat the entire time, simply because that ominous timer is always ticking in the upper right corner. Slowly but surely you see the difficulty status rise from easy to no chance in hell and the sweat starts forming on your brow. You want to make sure you survive the game, but you also need to do it as quickly as possible. It's an impossible task, one that is truly captivating and kept us coming back for more and more.  While Risk of Rain supports solo gamers, the true core of the game lies with the four-player co-op. When you're tackling the beasts of other worlds with three of your best friends, each playing a different character and you are all working in unison, the game really shines as something special. If you're not likely to play the game with friends, I'd almost recommend skipping it all together; that is how integral the multiplayer truly is.  Risk of Rain manages to pull off the pixel look with style and flair. The characters are enjoyable, the enemies are ghastly, and those tunes are fantastic. If you can swing a few dollars, definitely pickup the soundtrack from the website, it's right up there with Fez and Monaco in terms of great indie game albums.  Highly Recommended ","hours":35.4,"funny_percent":0.03592814371257485,"helpful_percent":0.844311377245509}
{"review":"I think this game deserves a sequel or a DLC bad, I just hunger for more Risk of Rain!","hours":142.1,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9347826086956522}
{"review":"When you do it right, you become a demi-god of death.  It feels great.","hours":112.9,"funny_percent":0.3888888888888889,"helpful_percent":0.7716049382716049}
{"review":"You can get so OP from items that theres a point where you do more damage standing still than attacking. 10/10","hours":38.2,"funny_percent":0.40384615384615385,"helpful_percent":0.9038461538461539}
{"review":"It's hard to say something about Risk of Rain that hasn't already been said in the reviews already, so I guess I'll tell the story about how I came across it:    To start off, I'm a musician. You may be thinking to yourself now: \"Why is this guy telling us this, and, more importantly, why should I care?\" Well, I'll tell you. A few years ago, I went to a music camp for the summer, and one of my favorite things to do was to go out into a nearby field with a small speaker and go stargazing after our performances. We'd find some chill music to pull up and just talk about our lives. One night, this guy suggested we listen to a soundtrack he had, from a game called Risk of Rain. I was intrigued, as I love video game soundtracks, so I told him to plug it in. I was immediately hooked on the music, and I decided to go investigate the game. I played a gameplay trailer, and it looked interesting enough. I was a fan of roguelike games, and the pixelated art style was always something I enjoyed.  A couple weeks later, I went and purchased the game and gave it a go. Being a pretty experienced, I felt ballsy and started on Hard mode... That was a mistake. I was murdered within about 15 minutes. However, after switching down to the normal difficulty, I started playing through, and I loved every second of it. Before I realized it, the difficulty was no longer increasing, and the timer read 150:00. You know you've found a fun game when you can invest two and a half hours into it while having it feel like a matter of minutes.  A couple of days later, I had every class unlocked and just enjoyed myself. I told my friends about the game, got some co-op games going, and just felt happy. The combination of a fun and challenging game is something that I've always enjoyed. The simplicity, and yet precise technicality of the game, was made perfectly. And of course, the music. The soundtrack of the game is just beautiful, and matches the tone and setting of the levels perfectly. If you wanna give it a listen, here's a link:  YouTube™ Video: Risk of Rain Soundtrack  Views: 564,441 Buy the Album: http://chrischristodoulou.bandcamp.com/album/risk-of-rain 00:00 Aurora Borealis 03:55 Arctic Oscillation 10:37 25.3°N 91.7°E 14:55 Chanson d'Automne..  Anyway, that's the story of how I found this game. So, if you want a fun game with infinite replayability, and an overall great experience, buy this game. It was worth every penny for me. ;)","hours":69.3,"funny_percent":0.11627906976744186,"helpful_percent":0.9418604651162791}
{"review":"This game is AMAZING.  The mechanics are well-oiled (especially after the last updates; now, it flows smoothly). The OST is simply beautiful. The graphics create a unique atmosphere: the gameworld is dark-toned but not lugubrious; you feel lonely, but never properly desperate, and the scenarios are always enjoyable (even after countless hours of replay). Also, the storyline of sorts is gradually revealed via item logs and monster logs you acquire after some time playing - the game starts in media res. You don't need to know what's going on to enjoy it, but it surely adds to the flavor. I particularly like this form of storytelling: a very good game becomes more and more fascinating once you start realizing (well, perhaps not exactly) what's going on after some exploration. It reminds me of Diablo II in this point.  Most important, though, is that it is PURE FUN. Very challenging and very rewarding, it leaves me wanting more every time I play. Actually, I sort of developed an emotional attachment to this game; when I started playing it, I was somewhat distant from videogames (after 24 years of being a total videogame nerd), not really willing to play too much. This game (along with Papers, Please and some others) helped me \"feel the magic\" again, sorta like falling in love once more with your boyfriend/girlfriend after a period of strain and doubts.  tl;dr: FUN, rewarding, beautiful, challenging, cool, buy the hell out of it","hours":162.6,"funny_percent":0.06930693069306931,"helpful_percent":0.900990099009901}
{"review":"This is be a great game with loads of (sort of unexplored) potential. The graphics give the game an amazing atmosphere, the different classes are varied and really fun to play, the soundtrack kicks♥♥♥♥♥ it's 100% worth spending 70+ hours.  But the only problem is that, while the game has \"multiplayer\", but due to engine limitations, you'll have to either use portforwarding or programs such as Hamachi or Evolve. There's no actual official server list or browser.  The devs also release some bugfixes from time to time, but nothing else since they're actually working on Risk of Rain 2 right now.","hours":83,"funny_percent":0.09852216748768473,"helpful_percent":0.8029556650246306}
{"review":"Risk of Rain is possibly one of my most favourite games ever. I mean it. This is an absolute beast of a game. I am majorly addicted to this.   You start off with an basic character with no equipment or upgrades, starting out slowly killing a few bad guys at a time to collect more money, and in turn you open chests with the money you have earn, each chest will have a new piece of equipment which is randomly selected, making each run through completely different to the last.   When you reach level 20ish you are completely kitted out in equipment, upgrades and power ups, you can walk through hoards and hoards of bad guys using different techniques.   There is nothing wrong with Risk of Rain, at all. To me, this is a perfect game.","hours":71.4,"funny_percent":0.045714285714285714,"helpful_percent":0.8114285714285714}
{"review":"Stuff you should know:  -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you stand still for more than 15 seconds. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you stay in a level too long. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you focus on spamming your special moves when it's unnecessary. (you do have a primary attack) -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you try speeding through it. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you spend too little money. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you focus too much on trying to spend money. Just find the teleporter before you go discount mad. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you don't stack healing items. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you don't stack explosive/splash damage items. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you charge enemies. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you (try to) avoid enemies. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you focus on killing the bosses before you try killing the spawning enemies. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥because you get unlucky. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥even if you do get lucky. -This game will wreck your♥♥♥♥♥♥if you don't utilize the extra jump item that you stacked x3. -Take the final boss seriously.  You were warned.","hours":27.1,"funny_percent":1.0264900662251655,"helpful_percent":0.8278145695364238}
{"review":"What should I say?  If you like ...  a lot of greate 2D-Grafics-Style, a lot of Items, a lot of enemies, a lot of pixelblood, a lot of funny-rage-moments, a lot of fun, a lot of EXPLOSIONS, a lot of epic boss fights, a lot of simultaneously epic boss fights, a lot of runs, a lot of different type of heros, a lot of hard to get artifacts, a lot of awesome coop-moments, a lot of great music, a lot of ROCKETS  AND you can get all lot of's with  ---> NOT a lot of money ;)","hours":61,"funny_percent":0.325,"helpful_percent":0.78125}
{"review":"I can safely say that Risk of Rain is far better than it's clone, Chance of Precipitation.","hours":46.5,"funny_percent":1.474537037037037,"helpful_percent":0.7060185185185185}
{"review":"$3 for a game that has over 100 hours of play, acceptable purchase.","hours":121.6,"funny_percent":0.1,"helpful_percent":0.8625}
{"review":"great music, great gameplay. it just needs a better multiplayer system.","hours":12.4,"funny_percent":0.03225806451612903,"helpful_percent":0.8870967741935484}
{"review":"Makes fun of me when I die","hours":12.9,"funny_percent":0.0036855036855036856,"helpful_percent":0.6658476658476659}
{"review":"How awesome is risk of rain?   It's so awesome, it is one of the eight fold paths to gaming enlightenment. Right up there with speed running super Metroid, breaking 150 actions per minute in star craft and getting through all of half life with nothing but a crowbar. It breaks you first. Makes you accept that there is no hope and forces you to re-assess why it is you need to try again. You realize you are not playing for the win, you are playing for the playing. Your inner pixel art lotus flower opens up and only then will you make it to the end.","hours":150.4,"funny_percent":0.38666666666666666,"helpful_percent":0.8933333333333333}
{"review":"This game is hard. THANK GOD!! Games are so damn easy these days, it's great to have a game that absolutely does not hold back on the difficult. YOU. WILL. DIE. and you will come back for more because of how damn fun this game is! And the music is incredible. Absolutely top notch. Buy this game. BUY IT.","hours":40.6,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.84375}
{"review":"The longer you stay on this hellhole of a planet, the tougher things will get.  But you're stranded. So. Please start moving.  The inherit challenge of Risk of Rain is to balance speed with thoroughness. Dwell any particular region longer and you're bound to discover (and be able to afford) an array of random weaponry which stacks together in clever ways, turning your hopeless vagrant into a prayed-for messiah. But there's that catch ... the longer you dwell in one zone, the more infernal the next will be. So as you fight simply to survive, you'll also be gauging time and charting hypothetical routes through the mysterious wasteland ... hoping to come across the right combination of moneys, chests and sacrificial totems in efficient order.  Aside from the planet's devious armory, your years on the frontier have supplied you with a certain set of skills. Regardless of your profession, these core skills usually take form in a weak-ish basic attack, a middling form of crowd control, some type of evasion, and a signature ability (think of this as the one that won you all that money on The Universe's Got Talent: Killing Edition). Each time you use a skill - beyond the basic attack - you'll have to wait a few seconds before you can use it again. As that one random monster crab is quickly joined by every casual acquiantance from his apparently quite-social life, those seconds can seem like an eternity. But you'll need to use those skills with abandon - conservation is for another time and place.  Again. Don't stop.  As your deaths accumulate, Risk of Rain becomes a game about learning the ins-and-outs of an alien frontier while constantly pushing yourself to discover new corners of its relentless universe.   Your only choice of profession at the start is a fine-tuned but vanilla-bean commando. But just as you begin to master your skills, you'll unlock a new, entirely unique character to possibly nudge your game progress further. Trust those who have come before: The new characters will often feel useless on the first playthrough. At some point, you'll wrap your brain around the death-delivering potential of each. And as you pour gallons of acid across shadowy plains or single-shot the entire health bar of one of the game's gargantuan bosses, you will learn to feel invincible ... for a minute or two at least.  Each of the planet's progressively elaborate environments includes a familiar basic layout from play to play, but its random generation makes each play just uncomfortable enough to force you to make decisions on the fly. Level talk is boring, but do note: the surprisingly elaborate final stage is reward in itself.  Risk of Rain is a game that requires skill and cunning ... but not so much skill and cunning to be abusive. It drops a torrent of challenges on you ... while giving you delightful ways to overcome them. To this survivor: It's earned a place in the Roguelike Temple of Elders.  Be sure to visit.  Just remember to keep moving.","hours":48.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9014084507042254}
{"review":"This late in the game, it may be pointless to review Risk of Rain, but I figured I should since I have a kind of a rekindled love affair with it. Keep in mind, however, that most of my playtime has been on the Vita/PS4 and I am now faced with the daunting task of unlocking everything on my PC copy. So take this as you will.  Released in 2013 (holy crap, that long ago?), Risk of Rain is an indie action platformer best characterised as rogue-lite and quite frankly, it is a total blast to play. When I got it, shortly after release, I put a little bit of time into it, but admittedly, I didn't -get- it. When you first fire up the game, you have only one character available (the Commando) and after a little intro detailing some dude destroying your cargo ship and your drop-pod blasting down to the planet below, you're left to your own devices. The drop-pod shows only the Commando available to choose with the promise of several others to unlock in the future and the promise is exciting. But when I originally started playing, I had no idea what to do, what I was doing, or really why I was doing it.  It was fun, but it didn't capture my imagination and I didn't give it the time it needed. The game was out to kill me and it was doing a good job. I wasn't doing very well at all with the Commando and I was desperately hoping to unlock some other kind option (to this day, I still don't like the Commando). Like I said, I didn't get the game at all. It was weird, it was alien, yet it was so beautifully-rendered and fascinating that I at least wanted to give it a go. I didn't understand what these chests and jars were for, or why so many enemies seemed to have the upper hand on me. After about an hour (keep in mind, at that time my runs in the game were probably no more than 10-15 minutes at a time), I had unlocked nothing at all, so I moved on, thinking perhaps this was one game that I wasn't going to meet for coffee later. Yet something about it spoke to me.  It wasn't until it appeared on PSN that I thought, huh, you know what, with such short runs, this makes the perfect hand-held game (for the record, it is the perfect hand-held game until you start beasting and having 30-60-minute runs), so I bought it yet again because of that -need- to understand the game and why it had always sat in the back of my head, sort of like how my first experience with Demon's Souls made me put it down, but it always called back to me. So it was on the subway as I was blasting away at purple lizards and smokey mushrooms that the game finally clicked. I had that \"a-ha\" moment like when you're struggling with something in class or at work and suddenly it all makes sense.  At first, the game is merely about survival. You will be minding your own business when suddenly mobs just start spawning in front, behind, above, and below you. They hit, and they hit hard. Worse yet, there's this difficulty timer on the screen that is slowly creeping up, almost mocking you as you die on \"Very Easy\" (for the record, I like the level named \"I SEE YOU\"). As it goes up, more things spawn; stronger things; scary things. You die. You retry. As you practice - and let's be frank, you need to practice - the game starts unbuttoning its shirt for you, one button at a time, teasing the prize underneath. You've noticed that the things you're picking up appear at the bottom of the screen in rows, all of them bestowing some kind of ability, some kind of assistance. You're living a little longer. You're braving the levels now, with a sense of purpose to get even MORE stuff to carry, each new item making you last that much longer, making you that much stronger. You've maybe got a healing drone or some turrets following you to make life a little easier. You've unlocked a piggy bank thing that allows you to buy even more chests to open. Eventually you are marching across the maps, unburdened by the equivalent of a warehouse strapped to your back, an indestructible god of violent chaos and at your command, you can unleash a missile salvo or fire off the weapon that you stole from the boss whose face you now wear stretched across your head. You reach the final boss and show him just what you've become and you relish that moment as the credits roll when you realize that it was all about the journey, not the end.  But wait... you've hardly unlocked a thing. You maybe have only one or two new characters now. You don't have any monster logs. Your item collection is missing a whole lot of boxes, some of which you can't even fill because you don't have some ability you've never seen before. What's this row of artifacts that I can't choose? Ah, that's what that cube of meat does? I see, I see. The purpose has now changed - it's all about discovery now. The game has clearly told you that it has a lot of secrets to uncover and it whispers, \"Come find me.\" You stop just surviving and now you're actually -looking- and the game is telling you that it's always been there in front of your face; a jump that's -just- a little too far, or a hole that's never been there before. You start asking, \"How do I get there?\" and over and over again, you unravel a little more. So you do it again. And again. And again. And again...","hours":2.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9791666666666666}
{"review":"You’re a little pixel man who shoots and punches wonderful looking pixel monsters. Super fun, very addictive and hard as heck. I'm not sure if I can cuss in these reviews or else I would have used a stronger expletive to signify the difficulty. IT’S HARD… but the good kind of hard. I also Made a video review. http://redlettermedia.com/pre-rec-risk-of-rain/","hours":22.6,"funny_percent":0.00909090909090909,"helpful_percent":0.8090909090909091}
{"review":"Intense and neat game, that combines addicting and challenging gameplay with really fun co-op. Not to mention that it has one of the nicest soundtracks.  Bonus points if you are a fan of rogue-like games as The Binding of Isaac or(and) FTL.","hours":203.8,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9607843137254902}
{"review":"You get to play as a robot chef who surfs on a wave of oil and throws boomerang cleavers at creatures from different planets.","hours":22.3,"funny_percent":1.118811881188119,"helpful_percent":0.7920792079207921}
{"review":"My favorite part was when I played for 45 minutes and then lost all of my progress when I died in one hit from a giant electric worm.","hours":83.1,"funny_percent":1.1311475409836065,"helpful_percent":0.7622950819672131}
{"review":"0/10 didn't rain once","hours":136.4,"funny_percent":2.6203007518796992,"helpful_percent":0.6954887218045113}
{"review":"Are you crying? No... it's just the rain...","hours":81.7,"funny_percent":0.8837209302325582,"helpful_percent":0.7023255813953488}
{"review":"everything wants to kill you but it'll be alright because I just found a ♥♥♥♥ing ukulele that shoots lightning","hours":31,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8024691358024691}
{"review":"This is one of my favorite Rogue-like game. This game is good, you can end up playing this game for hours. Even if you had died in the game, you will always try again and again and again. \"Easy to play, hard to master\" can be applied to this game. Every playable characters have their own unique playstyle.  The bad thing about this game is only the bug that still haven't been fixed even with the latest patch v1.2.0 Hope that Hopoo Games will give more love to this game by keep updating it.","hours":14.6,"funny_percent":0.018867924528301886,"helpful_percent":0.7641509433962265}
{"review":"Quite the fun game, I like both it's appearance, and playstyle. Definitely worth the money it's selling for now.  -The music is excellent, It fits really well with the respective level!  -Though the multiplayer definitely could be improved, with a little effort you're going to be able to host your own Risk Of Rain server!  -Though a rather simple touch to the game, it's well worth the amount of hours I've spent in this game so far!","hours":523.5,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9166666666666666}
{"review":"Great fun and super addicting. Fast paced platformer and roguelike that makes you fight with increasing difficulty the longer you stand around. As you take longer to finish areas the difficulty increases adding more powerful enemies and upgraded bosses the longer it takes.   It has a very similar item system to Binding of Isaac, in which you must unlock items by completeing certain tasks before they are available in the game. While there aren't achievements for ALL of these, the game has a listing in the menu telling you what you must do to unlock them, and the item pages give a short description over the padlock as well to show you what you need to unlock certain items. Starting now with 100 items to unlock and use, I am hoping we get a major update similer to Wrath of the Lamb and I suspect we will!  The worlds are randomly generated as well, but I am not sure if this is infinite, or they have a finite nuber of designs at the moment. It is a 2D sidescroller instead of the overhead view of Isaac, but uses a lot of the same concepts.   The game also adds a bit of lore to it with unlockable monster profiles that give you a great background on them and some funny dialog. The items also all have their own item cards with interesting infor and funny comments about them.   You unlock several (10 total) new playable characters with completely different skills and abilities to play through the game giving it very nice replayability. While in Isaac you start with basic tears and small stat differences, each character in RoR has its own unique weapons and weapon abilities to start with regardless of what items you grab. The items enhance your character in many interesting and unique ways.   Graphical style is very simple and may seem offputting at first, but it works fine and the pixel art is perfectly good. Don't disregard the game based on this!  The only issue I had early was the default controls, which seemed to be designed for left handed players, but fortunately they ARE able to be rebinded to our preferneces and I did jsut that so I felt more comfortable.   This is the next great Indie roguelike that is highly addicting, and totally worth the buy. I highly recommend it to fans of Binding of Isaac!  The game has Achievements and trading cards. The Achievements I feel are a bit underwhelming, however and don't give the same sense of completion as the ones for Isaac did. Hopefully they will address this with further updates to offer more ideas and challenges with them. Not that it needs them to be a good game, but it expands the challenge having new ideas and challengs to achieve.","hours":80.7,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8620689655172413}
{"review":"Risk of Rain is a mix of light 2D platforming, exploration, progression and combat. Each standard playthrough consists of up to 6 worlds the player can explore and fight their way around. Each level has one or two possible versions, and each version has one or two variations. You explore a pretty-looking environment to find the teleporter that takes you to the next level. While you roam around, different kinds of enemies spawn around you and try to give you the business. Killing them grants gold and XP, which lets you progress your character. XP levels you up, but the process is automatic so you really don't need to think about it very much. Gold, on the other hand, plays a much more impactful role, as it allows you to purchase items in a few ways. Every single source of items has a random element to it, even the ones that give you choices. Once you find the teleporter, you have to activate it then survive for a period of time while a boss and a ton of smaller mobs try to ruin your day. The boss always drops an item (sometimes an item you can't get anywhere else), though obviously randomized. The second to last teleporter also offers you the chance to warp back to stage one, albeit with all your items with you and the difficulty level maintained. What does that difficulty part mean?   While Risk of Rain does have 3 difficulty options before you start a run, they don't act like you'd expect. Instead they affect how quickly difficulty rises within the game, among other things. Each playthrough starts at Very Easy and goes up as you take longer to finish the game. Each new difficulty level increases enemy spawn rate, how often elite versions of enemies spawn instead of regular ones and how often actual early-game bosses spawn instead too. This exists to give a player reason to not just camp one map for an eternity. Sooner or later, depending on their item RNG and skill, they will get overwhelmed by the silly number and strength of the hordes that spawn in to murder them. The last difficulty level is actually called \"HAHAHAHAHA\", which is just the best.  Functionally, the game is pretty smooth. The sound design and music are enjoyable, fitting for the alien world atmosphere they set out to create. The art style is simple but vibrant, with a lot of pleasantly contrasting color choices. Flashy combat scenarios occur naturally throughout the course of a run. The controls are very simple and responsive, so it's easy to get into the game mechanically. I don't remember encountering any bugs, at least in singleplayer (more on that later). The player character occupies only a small piece of the screen but is big enough that it's very clear what's happening, at least until you wander into a horde of different enemies and they all start attacking, which can overwhelm you visually. The user interface very clearly displays all the information you need while playing, and I've never had problems with the in-game options.  Next, there's a lot of item and character variety to be enjoyed. Item effects range from basic stuff like \"Increases overall movement speed\" to more noticeable boons like \"Enemies you kill turn into ghosts that work for you\" or \"A ridiculously huge laser appears every once in a while and slaughters everything caught in its path\". The harder the game gets, the more chances you get at scoring the really insane items, but it's still fundamentally a luck-based system, which obviously may turn some people away. Character choices actually affect your playstyle, as each fighter has different strengths and weaknesses. Some of them deal with small groups more easily, others move around more efficiently, others can one-shot bosses with a good item set. Every character has 4 abilities, the first of which is their basic attack. Usually a standard shot or punch. The other three tend to be more character-defining. One character can completely block damage from the front at the cost of movement speed, another has 3 extra movement options, some of them spawn allies to help, etc.   All of this adds up to a considerable amount of replay value. Another feature that helps is Artifacts, which are treasures found in obscure corners of the maps or awarded after completing sometimes really vague challenges. These artifacts are unlocked as gameplay modifiers after you first find them and can completely alter how a run is played. From making enemies explode on death to letting you actually choose which items you get to spawning only elites, plus they can be combined. The artifacts are activated BEFORE a run starts so you don't mess up your run when you find one, and you're always given a choice of whether or not to use them.   So what are the game's problems? The first depends on personal preference, but the game is filled with enough random elements to probably turn away people who hate not being in total control. If you can't stand the idea of even singleplayer games having things you cannot influence (except with that one artifact, which arguably makes the game too easy), Risk of Rain might not be for you. It doesn't help that some characters are much more item-dependent than others, like the Mercenary.   Second, last I checked, multiplayer was a bug-infested hellhole of insanity. I played it with a friend, and whenever one of us would die, their UI would disappear forever until the next run. Not enjoyable, and that's just one issue we encountered.  The third problem I see is with how fall damage is implemented. Yes, fall damage in a platformer might be counter-intuitive to some, but it has a place in games like this, since they value careful exploration and tactics. Thing is, you don't take enough damage. In my 80 or so hours of playing, I have never encountered a situation where I'm actually afraid a fall might kill me. Couple that with how falling into pits doesn't actually end the run right there and you have an element in the game that seems half♥♥♥♥♥♥♥   Finally, the game's replay value doesn't stretch out as long as you'd expect when you see how many items and characters it has. Don't get me wrong, there are a lot of reasons to keep playing the game after beating it, and I mentioned this above, but it likely won't keep you coming back for as long as something like Binding of Isaac could. This is partly because most items don't immediately completely change the run, since their effects are usually only minor alterations to how you normally fight or move, through procs and mildly increased mobility. Extreme versions of some effects often require multiple acquisitions of the same item, since they stack. Artifacts help out a lot, but even that well dries up eventually and you may be left wanting more content. It would be nice to see more bosses and basic enemies added, or some sort of infinite survival mode with more maps tossed in, but I wouldn't hold my breath.   Still, I consider Risk of Rain well worth the asking price. If you can snag it up on sale or as part of a bundle like I did, even better!","hours":77.9,"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9512195121951219}
{"review":"Welcome to Risk of Rain, how tough are ya?  This roguelite will make you: -Yell at your friends -Leave your friends behind -RUN -Show you which of your friends dine at Weenie Hut Jr's -Make you lose friends -Play alone -Wish online play were more accessible","hours":8.7,"funny_percent":0.6,"helpful_percent":0.8727272727272727}
{"review":"Where's the rain?","hours":20.7,"funny_percent":1.6923076923076923,"helpful_percent":0.6974358974358974}
{"review":"Risk of Salt","hours":39.9,"funny_percent":0.5409836065573771,"helpful_percent":0.819672131147541}
