{"funny_percent":0.036231884057971016,"helpful_percent":0.9041651664805791,"review":"Tom Clancy's The Division:  (Foreword: I never preorder or never play games at launch. I mostly wait a year or two for gold edition or prices to drop. Most of modern games are broken or rushed by greedy publishers at the start and i do not like to be ripped off or be an unpayed betatester. I do not know how this game looked like at launch, so my judgement is not clouded by any kind of prejudice.)  I did install this at the free weekend 16 of September 2017. Game version 1.7 at the time. I heard most negatives on this game, you know those bad reviews when the game was launched. (Angry Joe review, Metacritic, etc...) So it would be very simple to jump onto the hate train as many others did. I really wanted to hate this game, but i just can't.  At first i was really disappointed by very bad character creator. There are only 8 male and 8 female faces. Most of them are ugly. 4 hair combinations and a few scars, piercings, warpaints and thats it. I thought \"Here we go, another rushed multiplayer game..\" Oh boy i was wrong..  I started to play. Walking around, fidling a bit with controls and graphics and I noticed how good the graphics are. That attention of detail which i did not see since Witcher 3. Yes some terrain textures are a bit blurry sometimes, but overall atmosphere is breathtaking. So much detail on this scale is very rare.  You will see New York city in a mess. Loads of rubbish, bags, cans, wandering dogs and mice. Abandoned cars, lots of explorable interiors. Bodybags, frozen corpses, broken electronics, spray-painted walls cars, mass graves in Madison Square Garden. Crows flying around, tons of military or science equipment, etc... Everything hand placed so it feels very real, that feeling of despair is really there. You can move or shoot most of the things and they will react. (Yesterday i spent an hour just by walking around in a huge office building, shooting fire extinguisher's. They fly a bit and make funny noises. My 2y old daughter sitting on my lap was laughing all the time.)  You can see wandering civilians among the devastation, to whom you can give some food or water. You will see gangmembers and robbers stealing from civilians or outright killing them. You don't have to intervene most of the time, you can just leave and go explore and loot somewhere else. City feels like living place. Yes after playing many hours You will notice that there are similar things happening in different parts of city, but there is a huge variety.  There is day-night cycle and weather cycle, all of it looks very realistic. You can have nice bright day or bad foggy winter night. Lights, snow and fog can sometimes combine into blinding conditions and you can't see more than few meters.  Guns (there are a lot of them, but You can carry only two + one handgun as backup), crafting and customizations are very good. Sounds are almost realistic. Shooting big M60 without silencer and hearing that echo from the buildings around You, that is very nice.   Yes everybody can look a bit similar in winter jackets and coats, but everything is very well made. There is minimal clipping of clothing, gear and weapons. You can see some snow and frost to settle on you when outside.  Missions and sidequests are very good and varied for multiplayer game. There are some rescuing hostages, fixing antenas, defending supply drops etc.. They can be a bit repetitive, but they are situated in different places so it does not feel that bad. Big story missions are awesome and not same at all. And many times during the mission I just stop and look around to admire the view or watch details around me. Story is not that bad actually. Most NPC's and story characters are very well voiced and animated.  I think that most things in the base game can be played solo. I did connect with other players a few times, but they just rush forward mostly and keep dying like ret@rds. I like to play solo, exploring, looking for hidden looting bags, listening to voice messages, intel items etc..  I wandered into Dark Zone a few times, mostly to die like an idiot, when met some strong enemies. But a few times I managed to get some loot and went to chopper site. I met other players, they did not shot me, so I did not shoot them. We put our stuff onto chopper cable, waited for extraction, defended site from enemy NPC's and then walked of with our loot without killing each other. Maybe i was just lucky and low level, but that made me feel like there are some normal thinking poeple in the community.  Only thing that bothers me: The game cannot be paused even when playing solo. You know, you are in a middle of dense fight and something in Real Life needs attention, and you just can't freaking PAUSE. But that is understandable for MP game.  After 100 hours of gameplay: - Game starts to get interesting and hard after level 30. - There is a LOT of endgame content. Daily, weekly missions, drops, contracts to kill elite enemies, etc.. - Skill system become important after level 30 when you find a specialized gear. - Music is cool and non-intrusive. X-Com styled. I still did not turned it off after all this time. - PVE content is good, but there are long waiting times for matchmaking.  - PVP is also good, but you really need to be very well equiped to be somewhat useful. Even if you lose, you still get some points and can be progressing even when always losing. (Like me.) - Endgame is meant towards people in groups, who communicate and cooperate. - Alone player will have fun as well, but needs to be extremely careful in DarkZone.  Performance-wise: i5-3570K, 16GB RAM, GTX 1060 6GB, Win 8.1. High settings, V-Sync ON, 1080p - solid 60FPS. (exceptions are: - bluring, vigneting, chromatic abera-crap, DOF - those are off as I don't like them - extra streaming distance - 50%, it makes very small difference in visuals, but huge FPS drops on some random places - sharpening - 70%, personal prefference)  So far the game really captivated me. (Something that did not happened since Witcher 3) For 30 Euros (Steam sale) it is very good quality/price ratio. I have bought full Gold Edition, but did not play any DLC's yet. I will update this wall of text when I do.  Positive: - Great graphics, atmosphere. - Good gunplay, many skills to try. - Nice varied guns, crafting and upgrades. - Can be played solo (mostly). - Well above average sounds and music. - Loads of content, even in the base game. - No locked skill classes, you can try and change all skills on one character. - Some sense of progress when upgrading a Headquartes. - Game is even better after level 30. Lots of endgame activities.  Negative: - That stupid character creator. - Best looking clothing is bought only with real money. - Game needs some crappy Uplay to run. - Ubisoft as a publisher  I have to recommend this game. It is very well made and developer Massive Entertainment did very good job. I really did have my money's worth.  P.S. Sorry grammarnazis I am not a native English speaker.  19.9.2017 edit - grammar changes, to make few sentences more readable. 10.10.2017 edit - added \"after 100 hours\" thoughts","hours":157.8}
{"funny_percent":0.064,"helpful_percent":0.6051246060837784,"review":"With the 1.4 update, I have seen massive improvements in the once bug filled game. Ubisoft must have called the exterminators because things are finally looking up for this game.  ","hours":676.4}
{"funny_percent":1.928449744463373,"helpful_percent":0.7380698183835062,"review":"I gave a guy a soda and he gave me his pants. One step closer to saving New York. ","hours":155.6}
{"funny_percent":0.027426160337552744,"helpful_percent":0.6247034419281107,"review":"First review. Will try to say as much as I can with about the good and bad things in this game.  This is personally my most favorite game of all time and it will continue to be for a long time. It's what I've wanted and what some others have wanted: RPG Shooter The Gameplay: While you may hear bad things about the gameplay (ie. The Dark Zone and Hacker) I have personally never encountered any hackers while in the Dark Zone. Either I'm lucky or just have great timing on when they aren't on. I play more PVE than I do PVP and so we will start there. PVE Pros: The game is intense once you get to your max levels. You slowly start to figure out how to run the show of fights and it can get crazy. Co-op makes this game super fun with friends and it makes everything much harder as it should. I love the mechanics of the game and the diversity of class have been even better after the updates to the game. Variety is great in this game and allows you to have class rolls in groups, something the game really didnt have in the beginning.  PVE Cons: Single player can be boring. Going out on your own to level up to 30 and grind from there can take some time and by that time you might wanna just go play another game. Its sad to say that some of these big fun things I talk about require the DLC to experience. While free updates have been fun, some of the stuff is locked behind the paywall. Bullet sponge is another thing. While its not a bad design, its definitely not a good design as it effects the Bosses. The Bosses are literally just bullet sponges. They have little-to-no design to them and are just a bigger enemy with a ton more health. No uniqueness between the bosses can be a killer to some people since it also gets boring fighting sponges for sooooo long. Raids are the same way. Constant enemies of the same thing that spam the same abilities are very aggravating as you feel like you have no way to deal with these enemies enough even though you have the best gear.  PVE Overall: This game is fun with friends and can make for some great moments with them. I've always played with friends with a little alone time here and there. However, you have to love the game to play it alone for so long. It may get boring for people who don't like the grindyness of this game. I'd give this a C+  PVP: I believe other reviews will tell you more about this part since I've never had problems with PVP before.  DLC: This is some of the most fun DLC I've played in a long time. Constantly be able to play in the Underground DLC and always have a great time playing on randomly generated maps makes it refreshing each time. Plus there is some funny bugs you can find in the maps that make for some great moments. Its the one DLC I can say I have some fun time playing alone since its a challenge each time.  Survival DLC: It's exactly as the DLC says. Survive to escape. This really brings you to the harsh weather of New York and this is by far their best DLC. I've played this so much because the PVP in Survive is something I love. It's like H1Z1 but everything you find you keep as long as you escape with it. This DLC is the reason I keep coming back to the game.  DLC Overall: Very fun but in the end, Its behind a paywall. You should know what this means. I think it's absolutely worth the money for all that it gives you.   Game Overall: I will never stop playing this game as it's what I've been looking for for so long. I recommend this game for everyone thats wanted a Shooter RPG style game. See you out on the streets of New York. Max, out.","hours":345}
{"funny_percent":0.03048780487804878,"helpful_percent":0.8935792429800187,"review":"Introduction: I haven't played a lot of third person shooters but this game seemed to offer an unique post apocalyptic themed open world setting along with a focus on co op content which was something I was looking for.  Therefore compared to any of the not so recent Tom Clancy games I remember playing I had some more expectations from this modern title not like I didn't enjoy the stealth based mechanics of the previous games but this is more of a cover and shoot based game here. Lets proceed!  Gameplay: First lets talk about the equipment you will be utilizing on the streets of New York!  Skills and Abilities: As a division agent you have access to some of the most lethal and technologically advanced equipment available within the US arsenal which translates to 'skill objects' like turrets, seeker mines to something more common like a ballistic shield but with additional capabilities which comes in the form of modifications for all the basic skills. You can equip upto two of these basic skills and one 'master skill' which simply is like an ultimate ability giving you a considerable health/damage/shield bonus for a short time.   Guns: But you probably don't want to fight with just these skills alone (you can if you want though!) so talking about the weapons or guns you have a pretty decent selection of sniper rifles, assault rifles, SMG's, LMG's for primary and pistols for secondary. You can further modify most of the weapons with attachments which boost its statistics like damage, range, magazine size, stability and accuracy.   All of the guns are useable but some guns are just more efficient than the others so yes some specific guns are more desired than the others. The weapon attachments on the other hand are decently balanced except a few. You can carry two primary guns and one secondary gun at any given time.  Body Armour and Equipments: Besides these your knee pads, vest, gloves, backpack, holster and mask can also boost some major and minor statistics. Some of these equipment also support addition of further modifications which can further increase some major and minor statistics.  Until you hit level 30 the combination of your guns and skills along with strategy and coordination if you are playing with other people, is what will matter the most. Once you hit character level 30 you get access to the game changing named gear set equipments, high end equipments and weapons and exotic equipments and weapons.   Recently classified gear sets were added which can provide upto six different bonuses for equipping six pieces of equipment from the same named gear set. I know I'm probably not helping much but confusing more at this point but honestly I'm just trying the detail the depth of the gameplay customization you can have.  Graphics and UI: This is definitely one of the best looking open world setting currently available. I have not been to New York personally but the level design is very good and consistent. While you can't enter each and every building or more specifically all the floors and rooftops which would be epic but still the areas you can access are very well detailed.   User Interface is also very well done in my opinion especially the fully customizable HUD though they could have used a little more colors in the main map window but that is not a major problem.  Campaign and Progression: Whether you are playing alone or with other people you will need to complete about a dozen of main missions and several dozens of smaller side missions both of which add to the storytelling and setting the theme.  Regarding the story itself I personally enjoyed doing all the main missions and learning about the different factions especially from the audio logs you can collect on the map. As you complete more of these missions you will be upgrading your 'personal' base of operations which unlocks the previously mentioned skills as you progress and also passive statistical boosts along with more possible interactions with NPC's in your base which is a main part of the story as well.  PvE and AI: PvE content is definitely one of the biggest drawing factor of this game however it is more similar to RPG's than realistic shooters or simulators due to all the statistics and calculations of equipped item combination involved so this is something to keep in mind.  Regarding the missions themselves there are a lot of options for PvE content even in the base game (without the DLCs). You can do them solo or with a group, the choice is yours but the harder the difficulty the more tougher the enemy and their AI is. Enemies on the highest difficulties have much more armour than players so the shoot and cover mechanics are important for PvE.  PvP: In the base game as of update 1.8 there are two areas of New York where you can engage in PvP, one is the new 4 vs 4 dedicated PvP only Skirmish mode in West Piers and the other area is the Dark Zone which also has a significantly higher density of NPC's along with timed Dark Zone specific mini events so it is both an alternative for PvE and PvP. Also if you want to engage in PvP in the Dark Zone you can now voluntarily turn on 'Rogue' mode so no more accidental and friendly fire however cutting other players rope during item extraction still makes you 'Rogue'.   Since there are conflicting reports of whether there is any third or first party anti cheat implemented or not, from my experience all I will say is that determining whether someone is cheating or not is a little difficult many times as the time to kill is not very high especially for 1 vs 1 battles. Therefore if you primarily want a PvP experience you might want to look at other third person shooters of which I have played very few.  DLC's: There are three DLC's available for the game, which add three different games modes and two of them also unlock an incursion (PvE mission) each on the base map. Underground is good for those looking for procedurally generated PvE challenges. Survival has separate PvE and PvP modes but its major appealing factor is the significantly different mechanics, it offers a good experience to those looking for more realistic challenges. Last Stand is for 8 vs 8 capture point based PvPvE game mode set on Dark Zone levels.   I have played a little bit of Last Stand and Survival and the experience has been quite good so far except for some encounters with some obvious cheaters in the Last Stand PvP.   Conclusion: Overall 'The Division' is one of the better third person shooters available especially for a good co op PvE experience. Nothing technically wrong with the PvP aspect but the implementation has not been smooth due to the constant changes to the game for PvP balance but that also tends to affect the PvE mechanics which often results in a divided community based on opinions as many people (including myself) mostly prefer keeping themselves restricted to the PvE activities which is not a negative thing in anyway in my opinion as everyone should have a decent level of freedom in an open world game.  The playerbase is still 'healthy' in my opinion considering that it is more than 1.5 years old (at the time of writing this), you can find people up for matchmaking for most base game content within few minutes but just like any decently popular multiplayer game your experience with strangers will vary as communication and team work is quite vital if you are attempting some of the toughest missions in a group.  At the end all I will say is whether you are playing with close friends or the new people you meet in the game you will have a lot of fun on the streets of New York, goodluck agent!  NOTE: This game always requires you to be connected to Ubisoft servers through the UPlay client. You can still play alone if you wish or as recommended with friend(s) or use matchmaking. I have updated the review following the 1.8 update.","hours":467.5}
{"funny_percent":0.9633187772925764,"helpful_percent":0.8748919973845593,"review":"STOP MAKING EVERYTHING MULTIPLAYER, I DON'T HAVE FRIENDS YOU 4SSH0LЕS      p.s. the game is good","hours":28.7}
{"funny_percent":0.05211726384364821,"helpful_percent":0.7621881273427431,"review":"The 1.8 added some new cool things, but i prefer tell you the truth i'm not motivated playing it alot.. and i'm an hardcore gamer playing 15h/day, I don't know why but i can't play it more than 2-3hours now i get bored fast of this game but i've played alot at game launch so maybe for that so i can tell you don't play it too much or you gonna get bored like me of the game !!","hours":650.7}
{"funny_percent":0.04741379310344827,"helpful_percent":0.9985311884092056,"review":"The 1.4 update has given the game a fundamental overhaul on every angle. It's become the game everyone wanted it to be from the start. However, the game is a little lacking in content right now, and the Dark Zone (while they've implemented ways to not get screwed over in it) is still a mess. The game is in a state where I'm happy to recommend it if you enjoy Diablo style loot-a-thons and third person shooters, but I'd say it's also pretty reasonable to wait and see how things turn out with their future content and PvP updates, now that they have a stable foundation to build upon.","hours":561.5}
{"funny_percent":0.028846153846153848,"helpful_percent":0.7485147583579262,"review":"Edit: Updated review for patch 1.6!  TL; DR: As of patch 1.5, the PvE part of the game can be summarized as “4 Alphabridgers farming Barrett's vest”; the PvP part can be summarized as “4 man squad hunting lone wolves in Dark Zone”. Patch 1.6 introduced a more balanced PvP mode which is surprisingly fun in my opinion, as well as more variety in gear builds which is a great thing. High-level players now have Legendary difficulty missions to farm even better gear. The change is definitely a step in the right direction. But is the game \"perfect\" now? I'd say far from it.   This game still suffers badly from largely empty environment as an open world game and lack of player interaction as an MMO, which I will elaborate below.   The Division is some sort of paradox to me, it’s a solid shooter and a shallow MMO at the same time, and it’s a great time killer thanks to the RNG god. See, the game is on my recommend list, but make no mistake:  -if you seek meaningful story and plot with twists, or memorable characters with depth, just look somewhere else;  -if you like shooting some bad guys and watch numbers of different colors pop out, look no further and this game does a fine job for you to enjoy.   The Long Version:  A Detailed World Speaking of graphics, The Division is a masterpiece of its own kind: with everything maxed out, the game is truly something to behold: The falling snow, the abandoned buildings and ravaged streets of New York, the dim light at night and the glaring bloom at dawn, everything looks fine with realistic detail and a post-apocalypse touch.   Even at medium settings it looks beautiful. And the game runs fine on my 2-year-old rig, no hiccups or stuttering (I did experience occasional framerate drops, but only in very rare case) which is amazing.  Wasted Potential Unfortunately, player’s interaction with such game world is shockingly limited: you cannot enter most buildings and even when you can, there’ll be just a few “collectibles” inside or some switches to turn on/off, there are civilians on the street but all you can do is pressing “F” at the right time so they can give you some garbage that you’ll never use.   It seems that tons of assets in this game are not utilized to full potential and only serve as visually pleasing elements, the devs have created lots of interesting set pieces (such as the scene where a woman is playing piano in snow) but all you can do is to collect audio logs, phone recordings and such. Some may argue that the game’s story lies behind those audio logs, but I’d expect 21st century game devs do better than that for an AAA title.  Welcome to The Grind The actual gameplay is solid: guns feel alright, animations are smooth and most of the agent outfits look cool enough, there are also tons of equipment with different properties/talents for you to grind. The problem is some weapon/gear combinations are vastly superior in performance to others, so you’ll end up seeing Alphabridge users everywhere and 9 players out of 10 are farming Barrett’s vest, which is an irony considering the game’s vast array of weapons and gears. Generally I like the build variety introduced with patch 1.6, but I feel some of them are still much under-powered compared to others, such the Hunter's Faith set, or only useful in very specific situations such as the Final Measure set.  The survival DLC, on the other hand, is brilliant, not only it negates the grinding, but also makes everything relevant: the cold weather, the food and drink you collect, the weapon/gear you scavenge from dead bodies, all serve to your ultimate survival goal and are lore-friendly to The Division world. IMO this DLC is a must have for you survival lovers.   Be warned though, the game utilizes Ubi’s notoriously faulty servers, so expect disconnections/lag even if you have good Internet connection.  The Missing MMO What you think about The Division will also depends on how you view the MMO genre in general. I’d say, as an MMO, The Division’s player interaction options are severely lacking, besides standard co-op PvE, Dark Zone encounters and occasional items sharing, all you have is a public chat channel and for half of the time it just shows players from different countries insulting each other. There’s no guilds, no clans, no platoons and organizations you’d expect from an MMORPG, all you have is your Uplay friend list, which is simply disappointing.  Bottom Line Overall I like the game, and would recommend it to any shooter fans who have lots of spare time and don’t mind a little grinding. But I do hope future game devs can learn from The Division’s mistakes so we’ll be able to enjoy some truly great shooter/RPG MMO hybrid gameplay in a few years.","hours":561.7}
{"funny_percent":0.035164835164835165,"helpful_percent":0.7134168078435231,"review":"I really feel like the Divsion is a great game that has pulled in the wrong community and therefore has suffered due to it. You have a bunch of typical FPS players on here complaining about MMO mechanics when this game is clearly a MMO and not another shoddy COD ripoff. You have players complaining about difficulty who clearly don't understand this is a tactical game and not a gun-ho simulator. You also have people complaining over the PvP and how unbalanced it is; this is an MMO and as an MMO there is never going to be a perfect PvP setup. There are always going to be people complaining and crying over things and that is something normal in any MMO. It really sickens me with the numbers of negative reviews on this wonderful game; I've personally brought 3 of my friends into the game and they all ended up buying it and everyone is loving it and having tons of fun. If you are looking for a challenging and fun experience and you enjoy MMOs I would strongly suggest picking this title up with a few friends.","hours":100.3}
{"funny_percent":0.07692307692307693,"helpful_percent":0.6000780991698479,"review":"TL:DR It used to suck, now it sucks a hell of a lot less (I'd even say it's pretty good now), and with more updates coming I have faith it can become something amazing.  Coming from someone who's played the game since day one, watch it fall and crumble into the pathetic excuse for a game it became, and then watch the developers actually try to make it functional again givers me a lot of hope. For a while I stopped playing the game for reasons you probably already know but they've made a lot of improvements and theyre still working. It's actually playable now, its enjoyable even if you're alone, however a lot more difficult, but that should only make sense.    The Dark Zone (PvPvE) is fun, sometimes you get hackers but for the most part it's safe. The PvE is a little lacking but it's pretty fun even still, especially with the Underground Update. Although, I wish they expand the map and story further.  Overall I reccomend you play with friends.  I heard somewhere that the devs are considering making a sequel to the divison but I hope the developers instead continue working on this game and continue to add new free content (PvP AND PvE please!) instead of moving on to a 2nd.","hours":504.8}
{"funny_percent":0.07263427109974424,"helpful_percent":0.8099063184762285,"review":"I'll keep it really short, the chances of anyone actually making It to whatever page this review is on are slim.. Its Nothing revolutionary, but what It does I would say It does well...   **If you know what you are getting Into a RPG based shooter & not a twitch shooter/1 shot kill then you will probably really enjoy this game for what It is.  You will not be quick scoping or dealing out 1shot headshots, I dont care that hes wearing a hoodie. Think way less CoD/CSGo and think more Mass Effect/Witcher In terms of \"spongyness\".. If your gear and weapon(s) suck, then so do you... And I dont mean that In an offensive way, Its just the way It is.  Some people like that, some dont. I personally, am having alot of fun.  8/10 -- Enjoyable solo, but really shines with your buddies.  **Zero tech or graphical errors, Settings all set to very high/ultra, has been smooth sailing & looks amazing.**","hours":78.9}
{"funny_percent":0.046153846153846156,"helpful_percent":0.884986456937715,"review":"One of my favorite games, been playing it since invite beta and still enjoy it to this day.  Been playing it mostly solo and it has been a great experience to push myself to be able to complete end game content solo, as well as in a group of friends that I've met through the game.  Working on your set, the perfect stats and weapons can be a bit tedious but it is worth it in the end when you can melt pretty much everything and survive like a beast on crack.  And still warmly recommending it to everyone I know.  If you're new and on the fence about this one and feel that all you've heard is bad but you're still kinda interested.  Get it, it's for yourself, not for someone else to tell you what you enjoy and can't enjoy.","hours":284.8}
{"funny_percent":0.07006369426751592,"helpful_percent":0.8462672026878001,"review":"Got 231 hours on uplay, took the free weekend deal to write review for steam (yes i downloaded 36GB to write this, lol)  Pro's - Probably one of the best looking games out there, even after all the downgrades, lots of details, good textures and not ''that'' many towers to climb for an ubisoft game :p - Nice open world, with enough stuff to do (from bosses to kill, to random missions and challenges)  - So much loot - You really feel it when you get better gear - Story is decent, nothing you havent seen before tho - Decent solo, awesome with friends  - Darkzone is an interesting place, no idea who will shoot you and who will not - Grindy, but that can also be a -  - Survival DLC is amazing, Bloody tense - Underground is fairly nice aswell, bit of corridor shooting that brings you to special locations like a gold vault somewhere under NYC - Cover works well and like you expect it should work - Good UI - Often updates and free content drops (like new guns and gear)  - Lots of dev interaction on for example twitter, reddit and even with their own show on Twitch - Runs fairly well, tad high CPU usage but good FPS around the board (i53570/16GB/980)  Cons - item crafting is kinda useless  Character creator is pretty bad, you can chose between 3 or so heads, with clothes that don't change anything - Grindy, but that can also be a +   ____ This is all based on the latest 1.5 patch (1.4 fixed the game completely)","hours":3.1}
{"funny_percent":0.037037037037037035,"helpful_percent":0.7781717881214687,"review":"This review if for version 1.7.1  Pros:  +Looter/Shooter +Co-op +Lots to do +Lots of loot +Demo to try before buy +Level up system with skills/talents/perks tree +PvE and PvP +Build a base as you progress +Gear progression +Cosmetic dress up +Dungeons and bosses  Cons:  -Awkward gameplay -Matchmaking system -Reach end game before DLC -Uneven Difficulty  -Enemies can be bullet sponges   Tom Clancy's The Division is a cover based looter/shooter. If you liked the Borderlands series this could be something you should try out. The entire game takes place in New York City and someone has released a mutated small pox virus and is killing everyone! Your job, in The Division, is to find out who released this and put a stop to them.  First and foremost this game was fun, LONG, challenging and rewarding. I enjoyed Borderlands so this one was a no brainer. The game took me roughly 60 hours to 100% complete. I completed all the quests and found all the collectables.   The difficulty in this game was all over the place. At one moment you're over powered and the next you die in two bullets. If you get surrounded chances are you'll die. There are safe houses all over the world so if you do die and there isn't a respawn point you won't be too far away. During your adventure there are loot boxes all over the world and all the enemies drop loot too.  Loot consists of two primary weapons and a side arm. There are backpacks to hold more gear and armor pieces like gloves, chest pieces, knee pads and more! Gear is standard like you've been accustomed to throughout other games. You have your grey gear (worst), then green gear, blue gear, purple gear, yellow gear and finally a pinkish color gear (best). Each progression in color provides better stats and additional perks. Finally, there's cosmetics. Cosmetics don't provide any benefit and is strictly there for looks. These drop in loot boxes and from enemies as well.  The cover based system was something I'm neutral over. Sometimes it works fine and other times it didn't and when it didn't I died. In example: When I was in cover and I wanted to move in cover I'd sometimes come out of cover. I also had certain times where my skills wouldn't work. It must had been positioning while I was in cover. As you level up in the game you can pick different skills, talents and perks to use and change at any time for FREE! You can also repair and build up a home base. You'll get more skills doing this as well.  You can pick skills that make you a Tank, DPS or a Healer. When you reach end game you will get gear that have set bonus'. When you reach this part this is when the grind comes in to play. There are daily missions and weekly missions. Each give you random gear to help complete your gear sets. You can do a lot of the game solo, but certain missions will need to be done through the matchmaking system. You can use the matchmaking system to queue up with 3 others (4 in total) to play through the games \"dungeons\".  I hated the matchmaking system. While leveling I'd queue for a match, but start before anyone joined. I only got lucky a couple of times for someone to join my game. All other times no one joined or joined at the very end of my 20-40 mins session. By the time I reached end game this didn't change and was sitting idle in matchmaking for quite some time before I just cancelled out. In my opinion the matchmaking system needs to be reworked.  There is a PvP system and an area strictly for it called The Dark Zone. You can solo the areas or group up just like in PvE. There will be random NPC's that you can kill in The Dark Zone, but real people are in there too so watch your six! If you find gear/weapons while in the Dark Zone you must signal a helicopter to extract your findings. While the helicopter is extracting you must protect it. If you die during this process you will lose PvP experiance and the gear you found will drop and can be picked up by anyone.  There are a lot of things to do once you reach level 30 (max level), but you must wait until then to do so. All the DLC is locked behind level 30. As I previously said it took me 60 hours to get there, but that's because of completionist. I wished they'd space end game DLC out better instead of only at the end.  I had a lot of fun regardless of the problems I had and the enemies could at times take way to long to kill, but a good game nonetheless. The game regularly goes on sale for $20, but you can also grab the gold edition which includes the base game with all the DLC for $38. That price is well worth it as you'll get plenty of game time and even more so with friends playing coop. Worth a single playthrough and definitely a try. 8/10","hours":68.1}
{"funny_percent":0.07633587786259542,"helpful_percent":0.7814251610382874,"review":"I gave this game \"Back from dead\" Award!  1.4 and Survival made this!  Have fun everyone","hours":575.6}
{"funny_percent":0.014492753623188406,"helpful_percent":0.8573102653939533,"review":"This game was woefully ugly with hackers early on. Now not so much they got bored I guess. This game is fun for several hundred hours then starts to get very repetitive. Graphics are really good and game play is very smooth. Lacking in endgame content of some sort. Overall it is worth the money.","hours":843.2}
{"funny_percent":0.05084745762711865,"helpful_percent":0.6403112451498912,"review":"It's a pretty good game, especially if you like PVE, grinding, RNG and all that. The main issue and reason for the majority of negative reviews was the overall end game once you reach level 30. The latest 1.4 patch has delivered most of what the people were asking for, and certainly to me this has fixed any issue I had with the end game.  Sekhat Temporus goes into great detail of what to expect in this reviews comments.","hours":294.8}
{"funny_percent":0.02702702702702703,"helpful_percent":0.7705009505198904,"review":"Product received for free  PROS:   MMO's elements: Crafting/Perks/Loots/Emotes are actually good. We are waiting for new concepts like trading goods between players has been added. Progress system is perfect! I can improve my character, get new gears, unlock new talents, and seeing them more powerful. Stunning graphics and high details level. Still beautiful even if you put it on low to gain some FPS. Customisable HUD & Elegant interface/map design. Good optimization for PC and very smooth animations: Originally posted by Ubisoft: it's a native PC version and NOT an adjusted console version for PC I liked the Cover system, it replaces the jump/crouch abilities to add a new movement mechanic Check out this video for more info  Choose your game style and find your role! For example i like to play as a medic guy with full healing equipment, in order to revive my mates easily and give them a massive healing waves. Adrenaline: Lots of fun, especially when you become a Rogue (the most wanted enemy) and you have to survive against all other players (good feeling).  CONS:[  Simply like any other game, the division has its own cons, because there is no one game with 100% of pros:  Unfair PVP system in the DarkZone  Personalization has few options, especially character's face (i need to modify more things in order to make a unique character). We need more activities, i mean a new activity more than just shooting enemies (maybe in the next coming DLCs) Ubisoft network = TRASH...NOT a new info i know. (Update #1: Servers are \"actually\" stable). Anti-Cheaters System is broken, they are banning innocent players. I got banned and still don't know why. \"JUST LIKE THE ROCKSTAR GTA 5 SYSTEM against cheaters\" Ubi fixed a lot of these random bans including me :) The game still expensive just like other Ubi titles. I think a successful multiplayer game should be more accessible to be played. This may explain why Rainbow Six Siege servers suffer from a lack of players. Solution: Make your game more accessible by decreasing its price or support us with Free DLCs content. Or give us the Season Pass for Free to solve this point.    Results and Final Word:  I give it 6.6/10 for (80% Graphics, 55% gameplay and 65% optimization). Everything is on average...  i recommend it only during the sale's period.  IT'S NOT THE GAME OF THE YEAR FOR SURE...BUT STILL A GOOD ONE.  Thanks for reading my review.","hours":40.8}
{"funny_percent":0.01282051282051282,"helpful_percent":0.9921695406831303,"review":"I enjoyed leveling up, gearing up, and then after 147 hours I gave up.  There is a large amount of guns to choose from, and plenty of set bonuses to give you ideas on how to play.  I felt the pvp wasn't that good, and perhaps some of the design decisions had a negative effect on the pve parts of the game.  The reason I gave up is the end-game. When you have every slot with 256-level gear, there really is no incentive to keep playing and it's a shame. Diablo 3 introduced a paragon experience system to encourage you to make incremental progress and I wish The Division followed its lead. However it did take me 147 hours to reach that opinion, so I think this game is worth a purchase because those hours were really fun for me.","hours":147.8}
{"funny_percent":0.05714285714285714,"helpful_percent":0.7336136834416684,"review":"Get it when it's on sale and it's 100% worth it","hours":144.7}
{"funny_percent":0.08148148148148149,"helpful_percent":0.6315924483794414,"review":"I do not regret buying it, loved it.  Best if played with a friend.","hours":89.7}
{"funny_percent":0.7457627118644068,"helpful_percent":0.7754961583950678,"review":"This game is like porn, you'd expect decent content or a solid story but it doesn't really matter.","hours":1014}
{"funny_percent":0.06451612903225806,"helpful_percent":0.7097372525344653,"review":"Worth it just for the single player campaign - an atmospheric journey to save what's left of pandemic-apocalypse New York","hours":1010.8}
{"funny_percent":0.0875,"helpful_percent":0.9869348111423741,"review":"First of i had over a year of not playing it, i pre-purchased this game and at the beggining putting bugs aside it was a great game, then it got sucky, then worst and worst, and now they have fixed a lot of things and added a bunch more, the game is great.  +Great Graphics +good controls +tons of things to do +balanced +lots of cosmetic items +lots of challenges +less hackers +less grindy than before +various game modes  -the connectivity to the game is a bit annoying ( you lose connection for half a second and the game kicks you) -there is noooo way to play offline -some of the new cosmetics are way to expensive for individual items (you can unlock them by playing)","hours":420.9}
{"funny_percent":0.058333333333333334,"helpful_percent":0.8735321997473584,"review":"I really like this game. I don't know why. But something just keeps bringing me back to it.   I know the game is coming to a close. That the devs are probably just giving us some more content to keep us occupied until the Division 2. I know that it gets grindy, that the multiplayer game modes are basically dead, that no one plays Last Stand, that all of my friends would prefer Destiny 2. I know that.   But I prefer The Division.  You know what I think it is? The Division has a story that is unlike any I have seen before. Not the main campaign, the backstory. A backstory filled with tragedy, turmoil, betrayal, and most of all: regular, ordinary people.   This is one game with mixed reviews that is actually worth a look into.   ","hours":182.8}
{"funny_percent":0.04,"helpful_percent":0.8162915622100677,"review":"i didnt buy this due to the negative reviews, till i tried it for free then i realize i gotta stop trusting reviews. The most surprising part is that it's really well optimized, graphics still look good on my ♥♥♥♥♥♥ laptop. More fun with friends btw.","hours":6.5}
{"funny_percent":0.08823529411764706,"helpful_percent":0.605003633825271,"review":"I did the unthinkable...I pre-ordered a ubisoft game...I KNOW I KNOW, no need to kill me...the thing is..until last week...this game was just awful, almost unplayble EVEN with friends which was very sad, I used to play it..every once in a while for 1 or 2 hours, BUT NOW after patch 1.4 I think this game is ALMOST ready to be played daily by the people that like it's style,the game still has it's bugs,which ubisoft will try to fix later on,there might still be a few exploits and all but not that many,after patch 1.4 I think this game is starting to go on the right path, for once I can say I'm proud of pre-ordering from Ubisoft,altough after \"No Man's\" Lie\", I'll never pre-order ANYGAME ever again, for safety.  Just so you guys know how playable the game is now compared to launch and up to 1.3, I bought the season pass yesterday because I knew I'd have FUN playing this game so It was a nice deal and the Season pass is almost as expensive as the game,so yeah.   I rate this game (currently 1.4 patch) a 7/10, enjoyable with friends,fun and challenging when you are alone. Cons:The game needs EVEN more backstory to it,I find this whole scenario fascinating, to the point where I want to learn more more and more. Playing in the Dark Zone alone,is very risky, there needs to be a way so that if you are solo in the DZ,you get a small buff or something to help you run away from groups of rogues,maybe if you are alone you move (Insert percentage here) faster than everyone else. Pros: With friends AND the Underground DLC, this game has a 8/10 level of replaybility and daily play so you know grab a few friends and play it.Incursions which have very nice loot and daily rewards encourage partnership between players,which in turn makes making friends easier.  That is all,my honest opinion,I've hated this game and I felt ripped off by Ubisoft, but now I can say that I will get my money back in playtime. Thank you all for reading.","hours":201.6}
{"funny_percent":0.031746031746031744,"helpful_percent":0.6674982698999258,"review":"They have found the formula! It took them until patch 1.4 to do it, but this game is great now!  Forget everything you heard or saw at release. If you're looking for a looter-shooter that actually has tactical team gameplay and gets more fun as you increase the difficulty, there is nothing better out there right now.   ","hours":132.9}
{"funny_percent":0.05434782608695652,"helpful_percent":0.9241234849209672,"review":"People say that the divison is a broken game and its so bugged with glitches but its not all bad everything run really good and nothing is that really broken of the game anymore and the game is more even than ever before and you should try it out and see it for your self i think its an awesome game","hours":2082.3}
{"funny_percent":0.05555555555555555,"helpful_percent":0.9921633792915453,"review":"With the addition of Global events in 1.7, the game has only grown better and better every update that came after 1.4!  PS. I've played the game mostly solo and still had a great time grinding for endgame loot!","hours":438.8}
{"funny_percent":0.9245283018867925,"helpful_percent":0.9016980379686899,"review":"We finally made it out of the beta!","hours":807}
{"funny_percent":0.051470588235294115,"helpful_percent":0.7281365606457134,"review":"Patch 1.4 was godly.","hours":167.1}
{"funny_percent":0.005050505050505051,"helpful_percent":0.643395963017562,"review":"One of the best games i had ever played, amazing graphics and environment, more then 500 hours on this. Played mostly solo because my friends simply didnt had the patience to understand this game mechanics and gear system, playing solo it was painfull ... its not fun being chased around by groups of players just killing you just because they could. 1.3 almost destroyed this game, and the devs saw that ... and what they did on this game is nothing short of amaizing, they actually listened to the people playing it and fixed most of the isues, respecting what the community was saying. 1.4 its a revolution on the game mechanics, and made the game balanced even for solo players like me. And now ... 1.5 and survival. Survival its amazing ... everything that it didnt matter in game before it matters now ... water, food, meds ... the gear that was cosmetic only now has a purpose ... starting outside the DZ and making your way there it actually feels challenging . Even in this time the devs are making questionaires on what the community would like to see in The Division, the devs could have simply let the game die ... but they didnt. I give them respect for that, and for listening to the ones playing it accepting all the critics and improving the game vastly. I was waiting for this for my review. If you get this ... make shure you get the gold edition with the season pack, its half the price now and survival alone is worth it. But hey ... i know nothing about games, im just a noob having fun. And this game just got fun !","hours":630.5}
{"funny_percent":0.030303030303030304,"helpful_percent":0.669128053810715,"review":"Game: Tom Clancy's The Division Score: 8/10 Worth it at full price: It depends... Recommended? Do your research.  Misunderstood and Overlooked, but Still Enjoyable TL;DR at bottom for those who don't like reading  If this game was even half as broken as most claim it is, I would not have poured nearly 200 hours of my time into it. I've got my money's worth many times over.  If you want a tactical shooter, at least in the traditional Tom Clancy sense, look elsewhere. Despite being dressed up like a shooter, it's really a mixed bag of tricks, sporting MMO-esque mechanics while incorporating RPG style progression and cover-based shooting. It's easier to show/watch a video on what it's like or play it yourself than it is for someone else to explain it.  It IS a Ubisoft game. If you hate uPlay, this game uses it. Don't buy it if you don't like uPlay.  The game is fun, despite what the babies on the forums will say. Balance isn't perfect, but when you look back at other multiplayer games you've played, can you honestly say those you've loved were 100% balanced, either? Humans will exploit whatever loophole they find to gain an edge on their opponent. It's hard for any developer to account for misuse or alternative usage of game mechanics when you've got a pool of thousands of players tossing stones at each other.  Despite a rough launch and the onslaught of sh!t press that's been tossed their way for the past year, the developers didn't abandon the game or their fans like I've seen many other developers do when they just can't handle the negativity, anymore. Instead, they reworked what people didn't like, created more content for players to enjoy, and ignored the haters who could never be catered to in a million years. That's dedication. That's straight up honest work. That's something commonly overlooked when people come across information about this title, and it's something that deserves both recognition, and respect.  Granted, the developers aren't perfect, but they understand this, and they put their content through a rigorous playtesting period on the test server before releasing it to the main branch. You can't please everybody. There's always that one guy who's the diehard hater, or even the diehard shill, in some cases.  Me? I'm just a guy who found this game fun, and worth every penny. There's been bumps and bruises throughout the ride that was the Division's first year, but all in all, it's not a bad game. Trash like \"Shower with your dad sim\" or all the other garbage, rushed joke games out there get positive reviews, yet people feel inclined to treat AAA devs like sh!t because they expect more. I get it: they advertised the game and targeted marketing to lure in the CoD and BF kiddies, and this was misleading, considering the two genres are not the same. But just because someone expects the world, gets let down because their expectations were too high, then ♥♥♥♥♥es and moans about it to everyone and their dog, doesn't mean you should listen to them.  The gunplay is greatly satisfying. Sound effects feel authentic, and recoil not too rediculous. PvP is fun, though it greatly favors group-fighting rather than solo-play. The same can be said for most of the end-game PvE content as well. If you don't feel like working with other people, you won't have very much fun with this game. Sure, most of the content is accessible by yourself, but the game is online-locked. Almost everything you do is based in the embedded multiplayer. If you don't like multiplayer games, steer-clear.  The game's not for everybody. All of the best games, at least in my honest opinion, entice love/hate relationships (i.e. Dark Souls), and this game does just that. It's hard, punishing, and requires high-level teamwork in order to get ♥♥♥♥♥♥ done in the highest level of play. You will either love this game, or hate it.  My advice? Do your research, and try it out first-hand by playing the 6-hour trial period on uPlay. If you don't like it, don't buy it. I cannot stress this enough. The game was developed with a very niche market in mind, but it was made to look like something it is not at its core.  Whatever you do, look sh!t up before you spend your money. This applies to ALL games. I'm getting tired of seeing review scores drop on so many games these days because lazy @sses don't feel like typing a few words into Google.  Score: 8/10 TL;DR? The Division is fun, but it's not for everybody. Rather, it's very much an MMO-shooter like Destiny in many aspects. There's hours of content available to you, and many ways to play. The game is multiplayer-only, so if that's not your thing, do not purchase this title. It's not nearly as bad as most say it is, so if you're looking for a Destiny alternative on PC, don't hesistate in checking this out. Just be sure to use up your 6 hours of FREE trial time on uPlay before coming to a decision.","hours":199.3}
{"funny_percent":0.12195121951219512,"helpful_percent":0.7146213668884033,"review":"they actually fix bugs and release new content","hours":58.2}
{"funny_percent":0.2077922077922078,"helpful_percent":0.9002345401555115,"review":"Introduction: Tom Clancy's The Division is an Third Person Open World Action Adventure MMO Set in Manhattan in the year 2030 after a deadly virus burned through the state of New York. The President Issued Directive 51 and Put the State into Martial Law. You are an Agent of the JTF and the Division fighting the result of the virus - Deadly Gangs, Escaped Prisoner’s, Contaminated Civilians and more.   Review: Sometime in the 2030s an Unknown Strain of the Smallpox Virus Known as \"Green Poison\" or \"Dollar Flu\" Among other Nicknames, was developed by Dr. Gordon Amherst, a virologist, as a means of population control and was distributed by infected dollar bills during the Black Friday shopping insanity. The Dollar Flu became so Out of Control that the Government Placed New York, More Specifically Manhattan Under Quarantine and a Martial Law. The Government then began Activating Sleeper Agents Who work for The Division to help the JTF (Joint Task Force\" Restore Order to the State and City. The story takes the player through a 20 Hour Story Mode before Finally reaching Level 30. Like Most MMO's Reaching Level 30 is where the real game begins and the same is True for The Division. You will start out in Brooklyn which will be a very small \"Training Map\" that will introduce the player to the Very Basics of the Game then Story Events Will Take the Player to the Main Map Manhattan. There is lots and lots and lots of things to do in the division, you will never get bored. There are TONS of side missions and Events there is ALOT of lore if you like the story and the graphics are stunning so just walking around and exploring and enjoying the scenery can be fun all on its own. The game does feature a PvP Mode. To unlock PvP Mode you must be reach level 30 first. PvP Mode is held within The Dark Zone. Once a player enters the dark zone they immediately become available for other players to shoot at will. Shooting another player will mark you as a \"Rogue Agent\" Basically your PvP Flag is turned on and an Icon will appear over your character letting other players know that you’re a Rogue and your PvP Flag is on. Its screaming \"Hey! Attack me! I wanna PvP!\" lol. There is lots to do in PvP other than open world Fights. You can Go to an extraction Zone and Hijack Someone’s Cargo (Basically their inventory and Look) and put it in your own. You can Kill other players while they are doing Side Missions and annoy them. Whatever you want to do to start a fight with other players in the DZ (Dark Zone) Use your imagination because in the dark zone there are no Limits or Boundaries for PvP. Go Crazy. The population of players in the Division Are not bad but there not great either. Finding a player in matchmaking for a group can sometimes be very annoying and sometimes it’s an instant find. You can however do ANYTHING litterly anything Solo in the division as long as you have the right loadout. Nothing requires more than 1 player to start. The Servers themselves are Amazing. I personally LOVE the division servers. To be honest they are the best servers I have seen in a video game in a very long time. I have little to no problems with lag at all. No Connection Issues. Connecting to is very fast and non-problematic. The Servers on the Division are great. If you are worried about hackers and cheaters in this game, then you don’t have to worry because there are none of those in the division. The Division is a great clean game and Ubisoft done a great job at keeping cheaters out of the game.    Downloadable Content: The Division Includes some downloadable Content: Survival and Underground. Underground is a PvE Focused DLC that takes the player into the underground part of Manhattan, the overrun subway tunnels that have been converted into strongholds by gangs and bases by Military Gangs. Players can set multiple different modifiers on an Underground operation to make them harder and give them better loot. Survival is a Mix of PvP and PvE DLC that is just like it sounds: When a survival game is started the player(s) spawn stranded in the middle of Manhattan During a Blizzard with no gear or supplies, or comms and are infected with Sepsis that threatens to kill them in an hour. The only thing the player has is a pistol that has no ammo which you have to find. The objective is to find the Vaccine hidden somewhere in Manhattan and then get to the Dark Zone for Extraction. Players only have 1 hour to do this before the Infection kills them which results in game over.  Pro's:  -Open World -Side Missions  -Activities -Events -Collectables and Lore to Find -10/10 Graphics -10/10 Server Performance -The Game is Kept Updated -The Servers are Great. -DLC   -Con's -The Community Could be bigger. It’s not dead but it’s not big either.  -More of the Population Speaks Foreign language than English.   Conclusion: The Division is an Amazing Open World Action Adventure MMO that will keep you infront of your computer for hours and hours. The Graphic's are amazing and it’s just fun to walk around and explore and enjoy the world. The PvP is just as fun as the PvE and the servers are GREAT. The servers are some of the best servers I have seen in a video game in a very long time. There are no cheaters or hackers anywhere and the story is good. There is ALOT of things to do including DLC and you will never get bored with this game. I highly recommend this game to anyone who loves Open World Games, Shooters and MMO's.   Rating - 9.5/10","hours":105.8}
{"funny_percent":0.06666666666666667,"helpful_percent":0.9597144868815981,"review":"EDIT NOTE: tl;dr this game is a \"RPG\" looter shooter game, Think of diablo farming, this is not a realistic shooter,most people seem to be disappointed/angry at the fact they didnt research what is the game about.   Picked this game upon reading some positive reviews and people talking about it again on some streams.  So far 20 hours in, atmospheric,even though there was a downgrade from E3 the graphics still look good,loving snow storms.  Dark zones are pretty fun at low level bracket,and you can also have some fun with random players. People not afraid to backstab you aswell. Also you get the thrill of extracting several upgrades and see the bad guys coming your way.  Edit : this part was mentioned since i saw many people asking if its not too late to start playing.   I'd go in depths but you probably know what the game is about by now, I recommend.","hours":101.4}
{"funny_percent":0.09195402298850575,"helpful_percent":0.6293325436354756,"review":"If this game were to be released as it is today it would be in the history books as one of the best games ever made. And it still has huge potential. For those who know, it's been a bumpy ride. But finally, we have something solid and the best part - it can only get even better.  Thank you Massive for finally bringing this game closer to its potential!  For those of you who only heard negative parts of this game. Try it, decide for yourself. There is a free weekend going on right now!","hours":1032.8}
{"funny_percent":0.05,"helpful_percent":0.9948173196451618,"review":"The Division is a good game. Its not stellar or life-changing, but it is good. There's not really anything in the game that makes me think \"Wow! This is amazing!\", but there are plenty of spots where I have lots of fun with myself and friends.  If you like Tom Clancy games, and are into RPG looters, then this is the game for you. If you're only one of the two, then I would try it out first before buying. If you don't like either, this game isn't going to be your saving grace.","hours":75.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8312426289236197,"review":"It's a grind after a while, but still fun imo.  Never played with people at all so no worries if you're a loner. :)","hours":73.7}
{"funny_percent":0.03571428571428571,"helpful_percent":0.7167548756938944,"review":"They are making the game more and more optimized. My mid-range PC is now able to run it smoothly :)","hours":13.4}
{"funny_percent":1.6214953271028036,"helpful_percent":0.7035009111206156,"review":"What I learned from this game:  1. Clothes makes you shoot harder  2. Water makes you shoot harder  3. Sanitary workers are better trained than US soldiers and can probably took out North Korea by themselves.  4. Alex is the reincarnation of Jesus because we can kill him indefinitely.  The list goes on.","hours":66.7}
{"funny_percent":0.09375656926634433,"helpful_percent":0.8756954813663461,"review":"EDIT Between the ~~~  Original Post:  After looking at some of the reviews on here I feel like 90% of them are complete bull.   1) Server crashed... okay, good for you but I started playing this as soon as I got off work until just now and had litterally zero issues with the server. The fact that they fixed their server problem in less than a day is fine by me. I've seen many games launch and not be playable for a week (diablo 3?)  2) Uplay sucks... how? I clicked the copy code to clipboard button when steam prompted me to, uplay asked for code, i pressed ctrl+v and hit enter, division launched and played just fine. I have not had to open Uplay once in order to play this game so how this is a problem I don't know.  3) Graphics suck... ummm get a better card? I have a GTX970 and am playing 55+ fps on average with dips down to about 40 with a lot going on outside at 1440p. BTW the game looks amazing in 1440p.  4) Grinding for gear... well yeah genius, if you couldn't figure out from the OPEN beta and countless of youtube videos and news articles that this was similar to destiny or diablo in its kill badguy to get better loot to kill harder badguy game then you're an idiot. Don't buy a genre you dont like.  5) AI is bad... It's an RPG style cover based shooter where the AI uses the cover. yes they will pop their head out to shoot at you after a few seconds. Oddly enough this is exactly what you are doing after you reload, does this make you a bad player? Does the AI act like a real human in any other RPG you've played?  Now that that is out of the way, this game has been out less than a day. I can't say if this is something I am going to play for months or not, but I have enjoyed it so far and have had no reason to give it a bad review. If I decide the game actually is bad in a week or so I will revisit this and add an edit to the end. If this is the last line you see then I still feel like its a good game and not anywhere near as bad as people are making it out to be.  ~~~ I did not realize everyone on steam was going to read/comment on this. I will edit this review with actual opinion about the game once I have completed the main story and put some more time into it.   Finished the main story and got BoO to 100% in just over 38 hours played. (happened almost at the same time do to my completionist play style)  So far the only negatives I have are that microphone is defaulted to voice sensetivity rather than PTT which is annoying but I can mute people. Dark zone feels lackluster, roaming mobs and stationairy groups at the landmarks. other than that there isnt much to do in the DZ unless you go rogue and kill other players. The side missions and encounters were almost all carbon copies of one another which I suppose could get boring. realiztically there are a limited number of them total so its only repetative for a little while. I enjoyed the story. The amount of content included is more than enough to get you to max level. I hit level 30 after completing the final mission and I have only a few side missions and encouters to do. I wont go too much into gameplay because if you are reading this, chances are you have seen some gameplay on youtube and my typing is not going to describe it nearly as well as a video can. I'm looking forward to gearing up for what is to come and playing new content as it comes out.   Maybe I will update this as more content is realeased. If you are reading this I decided not to since youtube will pretty much have you covered. ~~~","hours":144}
{"funny_percent":0.03747534516765286,"helpful_percent":0.7028889100146966,"review":"Ok, SO i have played this game for a crazy amount of time. and i will say the game is really great, although the game is boring at the begining / middle area of the game and the boss are very repetitive the last few missions of the game show extreme potential and are extreme fun and challenging. I have completed the game and pretty much tested everything. so i guess i can atempt to list some of the things i found awesome and some not.  Awesome Stuff 1. Challenging Difficulty is freaking insane, it isnt just a small step above hard its a very large jump, it gives you a challenge and there is no way in hell you are just picking this up at fresh 30 and just farming your♥♥♥♥♥some Superior items unless you're the dankest memer the world has ever seen.  2. Final mission, Without spoiling to much its very difficult ( if you do it on hard solo ) and shows extreme potential for raid content and variety in the game instead of just shooting bosses or hitting T and just holding yourr left click.  3. Darkzone, The darkzone is crazy cool and the concept is rich with potential, only complaint is it kinda encourages you to just stealthly betray people rather than full on pvp. But the PVE aspects are great and the rush from getting your first High grade item and trying to evac it is just great.  4. The content seems to be planned on a consistent basis. we can hope that they stick to it but for now they have already planned out the first 3 expacs for this game, only downside is you gotta pay for them or the season pass.  Bad things in the game?   1. It is really hard for players that do the game solo, its very doable but if you're not good at shooters its not going to be that easy, they do have the matchmaking system but lets be honest past the first few first months of this game the lower levels wont be able to do much match making.   2. Until about level 25 the game is a cake walk, and the content is pretty repetitive, at the start you are immersed and loving them game and then you get to id say about level 10 and its just boring for the next 15 levels. ( luckily its fast leveling )  3. pvp exists but its not instance based or really encouraged. having something like a battleground or arena or something of this nature would help the pvp driven players find that thing that is missing, darkzone pvp is stale and boring and no body wants to lose xp or coins right now so yeah.   4. Its 60$ plus another like 30$ for the season pass. In this day in age your game better have some craaaazy content to be 60$, For instance not even WoW does 60$ expansions anymore, its just not a good idea. Especially with the content in game right now i dont think this game is 60$ value, in june or so, maybe, Because then we get a new expansion.   OK The last thing i would like to bring to late is the idiots saying this game is repetitive and server crash issues are stupid etc etc. Its repetitive because its an MMO with shooter aspects, not the other way around. If you look at every single MMO out there, it is repetitive, even the sandbox mmos have repetition. Server crash issues should be expected the first day a game is out, its server flooding and the beta as good as it was doesnt really give you a 100% sure idea when a game comes out, most games experience lag and dcs day one or in first few hours. Now that the game is a few days old servers are fine and gameplay is really smooth. Hope this review helps and good luck!  Shameless Plug https://www.twitch.tv/tagord96 ( if you wanna watch some Footage )","hours":197.7}
{"funny_percent":0.25252525252525254,"helpful_percent":0.7737862890538055,"review":"Having tons of fun with this game.  - Cool fighting/shooting mechanisms - Lots of loot - Great customizability - Exciting to upgrade gear/items - Decent story - Absolutely brilliant to play with friends - Great difficulty - Sense of freedom - Darkzone feels terrifying as a new player    Cons: - Repetitive grindy gameplay (although I would also write this for a game like Diablo)   Conclusion: Feels like Rainbow Six and Diablo 3 had sex and got this child.  9/10","hours":52.4}
{"funny_percent":0.061068702290076333,"helpful_percent":0.9250265779915067,"review":"Despite all the negative reviews I actaully enjoy this game.  PROS +Amazing Graphics(it's still fine for me after the graphics downgrade) +Open World +Fairly accurate to the real NYC +Tons of loot +TONS of side quest (About 12 hours into the game and I only explored 1/4 of the Map, am slow in learning and it took me some time to get used to the game, different people have different speeds so dont know about others... xD) +Clothing customization +Item crafting +Replayabilty  CONS +Occansional disconnect and Crashes +Hard to find matchmaking most of the time +Story is ***** +Character creation is **** +Can get boring if solo  CONCLUSION I love Division  DLC(Underground)- Underground is Damm fun, but its difficult to complete challenging mode alone.  P.S- Last Stand is fun(Without Hackers).","hours":1178.6}
{"funny_percent":0.16129032258064516,"helpful_percent":0.6337922895325229,"review":"After 600h into the game i must say i becomes lil boring if u are playing alone for some time u end up repeating the missions and stuff but if u have a few friends to play with then game becomes fun. i see this game as a team based game with some kind of plan who dose what and wich role but sadly with random people in 90% of the cases it ends up rushing ppl dieing 0 tactics rage quiting and so on and on.  But as i said if u have a crew then this game is rly great i recommend it :)","hours":625.6}
{"funny_percent":0.08695652173913043,"helpful_percent":0.9500481416224419,"review":"Alright so I've been playing this game for awhile. Definitely had its ups and downs. BUT I finally feel like the game is balanced, and things actually make sense now. Wish patch 1.4 came a lot earlier than it did, because a lot of my old friends from launch are no longer around.   Obviously with a game like this, it will always be quite difficult to play solo in the DZ. But if you choose your gear set and talents properly, you can actually somewhat manage. With the way the game currently is, I can reccommend it. Play with friends if you can though.","hours":904}
{"funny_percent":0.03614457831325301,"helpful_percent":0.9954076433560415,"review":"Visually stunning, immersive, fun and very challenging.   That is how I would quickly sum up my experience with the Division. The game has been out almost a year now (9 months as I’m writing this now) and after the initial launch in March 2016, I spent most of my free time after work playing it with my friends and other agents. Now that time has passed, I still get back into it just to have some great coop action and checking out the new content, monthly special assignments and new gear. As I'm writing this review I've managed to push in 200+ hours and I'd like to think I have a pretty good understanding of the game's mechanics and content.  I know some users had their fair share of technical issues, but luckily I have encountered zero problems. Game has been working flawlessly from the start. I get occasional disconnects from game, but I know that’s just my sucky 4G-Internet connection since it happens in other multiplayer games too. So, let’s dive into the game next.  Background I like the way the game starts, throwing me in the ruined New York, slowly opening it's story to me like a book. I am one of the activated Division agents, government’s last tools to bring peace back to the streets filled with looters, psychopaths, disease and... Trash.  I hate spoilers a lot so I'm not going into details with where, whens and hows - so I'll leave that part for you to find out yourself if you're interested.  Here's a quick peek in game's story:  YouTube™ Video: Tom Clancy’s The Division Trailer - RPG Gameplay [US]  Views: 1,580,001 Tom Clancy’s The Division TM is a ground-breaking RPG experience that brings the genre into a modern military setting for the first time.  Setting The world in the Division is very detailed, good looking and living (as much as a post-apoc world can be.) The map currently available isn't overwhelmingly huge, but it's definitely enough to keep you nailed into your computer for many nights to come. You can spend hours after hours just walking down the streets, enjoying the chaotic sceneries, scouting out the subway stations, exploring abandoned buildings and apartments - while fighting the various hostile factions that make the bad situation even worse.   And like I said before, there's a lot of trash everywhere. Piles of junk people left behind while trying to escape the city in a hurry, abandoned cars, homes, trashed stores and shopping centers. When you see a sickly civilian collapsing into snow for good, rats running around, contaminated areas with huge biohazard warning signs and combine that with very atmospheric ambient city noises – the overall experience is very immersive.   Some of the most resilient New Yorkers never left - or perhaps were too late and now walk around the streets, still trying to survive. They go through the trash piles, try to lock pick cars' doors in hopes for valuables, fight and squabble on the streets, shout from the windows and get in trouble with the local gangs. As a Division agent, you are very often offered a chance to help out these remaining civilians with their troubles, whether it be with just handing out some spare med kits and other resources or solving out some gang related issues.  Progress As the story opens and you've gone through the soft landing and basic training of Division agents, you're given the freedom to start exploring the ruined city on your own. After talking with the intel officers and exploring the situation map on various safe zones you quickly learn about areas and possibilities around you. There's tons of missions, sidemissions, encounters, collectibles etc. to do and you are free to tackle them in any order you want - alone or with friends.  As you progress, do missions and gain rewards and experience, you unlock new skills for your character and upgrade points that can be spent on upgrading different wings (Medical, Tech, Security) in your base of operations. Each upgrade sounds more or less logical and realistic and it makes sense that when the situation advances, you would like to build up certain commodities and security measures for people living in your base.  Gameplay Gameplay is only in 3rd person and you can juggle between the left and right shoulder cameras according to the situation at hand. You can zoom in or scope down the enemy for better aim, depending on what kind of mods your current weapon have. The core combat focuses a lot in squad tactics, launching the right skill at the right time and taking care of your buddies while advancing and using the terrain as cover.  The cover system works 99% of the time like it should, though there are some weird spots in game where you just can't take cover behind that cement block or hop over it. Luckily those are quite rare and those accidental deaths because the cover system fell asleep aren't happening all the time.  The gunplay works really well, combat feels and sounds nice and I really do enjoy it a lot. But remember, carrying a big gun is only half of the act. You also need to look badass while doing it and luckily the Division has a lot of cosmetic gear for you to play with.  Missions: PvE and PvP The missions in Division are divided in three groups. Encounters, Story Missions and Incursions. Due to Steam’s review limits, I can’t go into great detail about these mission types but to keep it short; there’s an overwhelming amount of stuff to do and by doing these you unlock new gear, skills and equipment for your agent.  Dark Zone is a war zone in the middle of New York, where gangs roam and even other agents can turn hostile towards you in hopes of loot.  Gearing up! As you do missions in Division and progress with the story, you unlock new gear and craftable recipes. Your agent has a gear rank, which basically means – the better gear you have, the higher your rank is. The game slowly gives you better and higher rank gear and by equipping these you increase your total rank. Once your total rank goes up, game starts to drop even higher rank gear – so you find yourself switching and trading for better gear pretty much all the time.  If you are familiar with other multiplayer games, most of the gear is color coded to give you quick info about it’s quality. Grey items are pretty much trash, green is slightly better, then you get blue & purple and gold stuff is pretty much the best. Now, there’s also bright green gear that are parts of Gear Sets. The more parts of same Gear Set you wear, the better the benefits are. And there’s quite a lot of different types of Gear Sets available in game now. You can of course combine these Gear Set and choose to have couple perks from various sets.  When you do missions in Division, keep your eyes open for special named gold gear too. These are high end gear usually tied to the Division’s storyline, named after special NPC characters. There’s also rare weapons like AA-12 autoshotguns or Thompsons. Finding these more rare goldies usually means grinding same mobs or missions over and over again, so if you accidentally find one you might want to keep it.   --  Division might have had a rough start with some technical issues during release, but I have enjoyed it without hiccups. It has a lot of content, it’s fun alone & with friends and playing with other agents works nicely without a hassle. It has great PvE and PvP content and the solid updates and new content keeps it’s rolling ahead.  After the launch there’s been two major DLCs that bring lots of new content in game:   The Underground DLC adds endless hours of randomly generated close quarters missions within New York’s sewers.    Survival DLC adds a new game mode that throws you in the cold, stormy New York streets wounded, with no gear and surrounded with gangs. There’s lots of new great loot available in here.   A BIG, fat and juicy recommendation from me.","hours":230.7}
{"funny_percent":0.03614457831325301,"helpful_percent":0.9173651366905429,"review":"Visually stunning, immersive, fun and very challenging.   That is how I would quickly sum up my experience with the Division. The game has been out almost a year now (9 months as I’m writing this now) and after the initial launch in March 2016, I spent most of my free time after work playing it with my friends and other agents. Now that time has passed, I still get back into it just to have some great coop action and checking out the new content, monthly special assignments and new gear. As I'm writing this review I've managed to push in 200+ hours and I'd like to think I have a pretty good understanding of the game's mechanics and content.  I know some users had their fair share of technical issues, but luckily I have encountered zero problems. Game has been working flawlessly from the start. I get occasional disconnects from game, but I know that’s just my sucky 4G-Internet connection since it happens in other multiplayer games too. So, let’s dive into the game next.  Background I like the way the game starts, throwing me in the ruined New York, slowly opening it's story to me like a book. I am one of the activated Division agents, government’s last tools to bring peace back to the streets filled with looters, psychopaths, disease and... Trash.  I hate spoilers a lot so I'm not going into details with where, whens and hows - so I'll leave that part for you to find out yourself if you're interested.  Here's a quick peek in game's story:  YouTube™ Video: Tom Clancy’s The Division Trailer - RPG Gameplay [US]  Views: 1,580,001 Tom Clancy’s The Division TM is a ground-breaking RPG experience that brings the genre into a modern military setting for the first time.  Setting The world in the Division is very detailed, good looking and living (as much as a post-apoc world can be.) The map currently available isn't overwhelmingly huge, but it's definitely enough to keep you nailed into your computer for many nights to come. You can spend hours after hours just walking down the streets, enjoying the chaotic sceneries, scouting out the subway stations, exploring abandoned buildings and apartments - while fighting the various hostile factions that make the bad situation even worse.   And like I said before, there's a lot of trash everywhere. Piles of junk people left behind while trying to escape the city in a hurry, abandoned cars, homes, trashed stores and shopping centers. When you see a sickly civilian collapsing into snow for good, rats running around, contaminated areas with huge biohazard warning signs and combine that with very atmospheric ambient city noises – the overall experience is very immersive.   Some of the most resilient New Yorkers never left - or perhaps were too late and now walk around the streets, still trying to survive. They go through the trash piles, try to lock pick cars' doors in hopes for valuables, fight and squabble on the streets, shout from the windows and get in trouble with the local gangs. As a Division agent, you are very often offered a chance to help out these remaining civilians with their troubles, whether it be with just handing out some spare med kits and other resources or solving out some gang related issues.  Progress As the story opens and you've gone through the soft landing and basic training of Division agents, you're given the freedom to start exploring the ruined city on your own. After talking with the intel officers and exploring the situation map on various safe zones you quickly learn about areas and possibilities around you. There's tons of missions, sidemissions, encounters, collectibles etc. to do and you are free to tackle them in any order you want - alone or with friends.  As you progress, do missions and gain rewards and experience, you unlock new skills for your character and upgrade points that can be spent on upgrading different wings (Medical, Tech, Security) in your base of operations. Each upgrade sounds more or less logical and realistic and it makes sense that when the situation advances, you would like to build up certain commodities and security measures for people living in your base.  Gameplay Gameplay is only in 3rd person and you can juggle between the left and right shoulder cameras according to the situation at hand. You can zoom in or scope down the enemy for better aim, depending on what kind of mods your current weapon have. The core combat focuses a lot in squad tactics, launching the right skill at the right time and taking care of your buddies while advancing and using the terrain as cover.  The cover system works 99% of the time like it should, though there are some weird spots in game where you just can't take cover behind that cement block or hop over it. Luckily those are quite rare and those accidental deaths because the cover system fell asleep aren't happening all the time.  The gunplay works really well, combat feels and sounds nice and I really do enjoy it a lot. But remember, carrying a big gun is only half of the act. You also need to look badass while doing it and luckily the Division has a lot of cosmetic gear for you to play with.  Missions: PvE and PvP The missions in Division are divided in three groups. Encounters, Story Missions and Incursions. Due to Steam’s review limits, I can’t go into great detail about these mission types but to keep it short; there’s an overwhelming amount of stuff to do and by doing these you unlock new gear, skills and equipment for your agent.  Dark Zone is a war zone in the middle of New York, where gangs roam and even other agents can turn hostile towards you in hopes of loot.  Gearing up! As you do missions in Division and progress with the story, you unlock new gear and craftable recipes. Your agent has a gear rank, which basically means – the better gear you have, the higher your rank is. The game slowly gives you better and higher rank gear and by equipping these you increase your total rank. Once your total rank goes up, game starts to drop even higher rank gear – so you find yourself switching and trading for better gear pretty much all the time.  If you are familiar with other multiplayer games, most of the gear is color coded to give you quick info about it’s quality. Grey items are pretty much trash, green is slightly better, then you get blue & purple and gold stuff is pretty much the best. Now, there’s also bright green gear that are parts of Gear Sets. The more parts of same Gear Set you wear, the better the benefits are. And there’s quite a lot of different types of Gear Sets available in game now. You can of course combine these Gear Set and choose to have couple perks from various sets.  When you do missions in Division, keep your eyes open for special named gold gear too. These are high end gear usually tied to the Division’s storyline, named after special NPC characters. There’s also rare weapons like AA-12 autoshotguns or Thompsons. Finding these more rare goldies usually means grinding same mobs or missions over and over again, so if you accidentally find one you might want to keep it.   --  Division might have had a rough start with some technical issues during release, but I have enjoyed it without hiccups. It has a lot of content, it’s fun alone & with friends and playing with other agents works nicely without a hassle. It has great PvE and PvP content and the solid updates and new content keeps it’s rolling ahead.  After the launch there’s been two major DLCs that bring lots of new content in game:   The Underground DLC adds endless hours of randomly generated close quarters missions within New York’s sewers.    Survival DLC adds a new game mode that throws you in the cold, stormy New York streets wounded, with no gear and surrounded with gangs. There’s lots of new great loot available in here.   A BIG, fat and juicy recommendation from me.","hours":230.7}
{"funny_percent":0.1,"helpful_percent":0.6684343282490889,"review":"i payed for this game fearing from all of the bad reviews but i do not regret buying it for one second, love it.","hours":90.8}