{"funny_percent":0.02830188679245283,"helpful_percent":0.6677552090631413,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW On the sixth, I bought this game on a whim. I played it until two in the morning, and while I figured some things out, I knew effectively nothing.  On the seventh, I started a new world with my new knowledge, and built a large ship. I sailed for hours, and found some other Ylands and gathered a lot of their resources.  Today, I figured out that I can expand my ship. I now have a floating many-masted base that I have sailed around for almost the entire day today. I have nearly frozen to death, swam to the bottom of what I thought was a bottomless ocean, explored airplane crashes, underwater greenhouses, and a lot of other things.  This game reminds me a lot of Minecraft circa 2009. It's new, it's vivid, and the exploration is exciting. Even if I can sail west for three hours and see nothing but water, the things that I can discover are interesting and keep me going in that direction. I haven't tried the other gamemodes that are currently available, and I haven't even constructed the Foundry or an alchemy table yet.  Ylands is a game that has got more depth to it than I expected in my first four hours. I originally thought that this would be a lot like Stranded Deep, or one of those other \"Oh, you're on an island in the ocean, build a house for funsies and explore the surroundings\", but instead what we've got is a weird and quirky survival game that is filled with some sort of weird electricity, the ability to build cars, some strange floating items, and we're only in very early access.  !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  That's insane! I'm excited to find more islands and to see what comes out of the gamemodes. I'd love to see some kind of skill system RPG thing come out of it, as well as larger land masses. I think I'm also going to build a second large ship and see if I can link them together and sail them using one helm. I'm not sure how long that's going to take, but I do know I'm going to enjoy it.","hours":23.3}
{"funny_percent":0.045454545454545456,"helpful_percent":0.9025250653036189,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW A brief summary of Ylands,  So far I have put quite a few hours in Ylands and am still being pleasantly surpised and entertained on a regular basis. This is a very casual survival game (for the most part, although I have been killed) that seems to focus on a deep crafting system and exploration. I payed 12 bucks for this game and its been one of the best steam purchases I have made in a while. I dont normally write reviews but with all the nonsense from people who dont even play the game on the discussion forums I figured it would be worth it to add my support here.  Pros: -Beautiful graphics despite the low poly style. The lighting and the water are two particularly nice things.  -Casusal gameplay. I find the game relaxing when I want it to be, but with an option to get yourself into trouble when you choose.  -Immersive and interesting crafting system. Most things I encounter make sense with how they are made and if you know anything about its real life counterpart you might be able to conjure a guess on how to make it.   -EXPLORATION. Its a simple concept that in my opinion is executed very well. Loot and points of interest are done in creative and interactive ways. The biomes are nice and varied. I dont even know how many their are because aside from an occasional crafting reference I refuse to use the internet to learn too much about the world because walking, riding, and sailing around really is that interesting.   -Great and flexible building system. You can free place anything anywhere. You can customize your boats, rafts and ships (although your limited until you get to the ship and large ship platforms)  -Probalby a lot more but I dont want to type all morning.  Cons:  -Cant browse forums for tips and experiences without an idiot complaining about DayZ  -A few movement glitches, most I have noticed with ladders, got myself stuck on top of a mast the other day.  -Combat, especially swinging swords and hammers seems a bit wonky.   Other thoughts;  If a developer sees this, I hope they are working on some sort of rating system for weapons and armor or atleast some sort of stat viewing option to know how thermally insulated you are and things like that. I got my moneys worth out of this game the first couple hours and will undoubtedly put a couple hundred into it before its all said and done. I for one didnt even realize there was a ylands store to spend money in so that has had no impact on my opinion of the game. This is not a hardcore PVP game so even if the items for sale were \"Pay to Win\" there wouldnt be much point. My understanding is thats its all skins and furniture stuffs, but like I said, been too busy playing and enjoying the game to even look.","hours":60.8}
{"funny_percent":0.25,"helpful_percent":0.7553057757064421,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Promising, don't ♥♥♥♥ it up Bohemia","hours":1.1}
{"funny_percent":0.01891891891891892,"helpful_percent":0.8844403356491395,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This game does not deserve all the negative reviews it's received. Most of them are complaining about the in game shop which is simply a collection of cosmetic items and skins. None of the gameplay is locked behind any sort of paywall whatsoever.   Not only that, but the developer actually seems to be listening to the community. When concerns were raised over being unable to opt out of sharing anonymous data, the developer actually went and removed the data collection service causing all the fuss. NO OTHER DEVELOPER that I'm aware of would do something like this.   I've played for over four hours so far and I've barely scratched the surface of the content available in this amazing game. There's so much more to do and see. It's well worth the asking price and more polished than any other Early Access game I've ever played. It feels, and plays, like a finished product.   I just wanted to try and do my part to offset the negativity from all these baseless complaints. This game is amazing. This developer is amazing. I'm incredibly happy with my purchase and will be buying another copy for a friend of mine so we can play together.","hours":9.4}
{"funny_percent":0.07692307692307693,"helpful_percent":0.9381665008524002,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW People are complaining about the completely cosmetic items that you can buy in the shop. Jesus Christ, who cares if you have a different looking repeating rifle? Superficial ♥♥♥♥s that's who. Trolls are downvoting this game, there's no need to thing twice about buying it. If you like surviving, it's perfect. If you like building, what a treat. If you like making Arma 3 ops, why the ♥♥♥♥ are you not playing Arma (but still, you can do that in Ylands with the editor). Bohemia hasn't really let us down in any major way before, so why is the community letting them down by not reviewing this game seriously? I know it's the internet, and this opinion doesn't matter, but seriously. What the ♥♥♥♥.  TLDR: Game's great. In game shop purely cosmetic. Negative reviews are 99% trolls.  Edit: Just proves my point about trolls that you guys are all saying \"what's dayz\"","hours":13.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7268758862269363,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I have had long play-throughs in Minecraft, ARK, Astroneer, 7 Days to Die, etc. I like survival/crafting games a lot. I don't do reviews usually, but I felt obligated to try to tilt the scale for this game.  I saw this game on a few YouTube channels I follow, and it looked cool to me. I then played TWO 1.5hr trials, and waited eagerly for the Early Access to be released on Steam.  There isn't much of a story, but I really enjoy the detailed crafting mechanics. Discovery of crafting recipes is hard but rewarding. The building and landscape physics of Ylands is quirky yet super fun. Though there might be a store using real money, it hasn't been at all necessary for me to enjoy the game and get value above and beyond the initial purchase price.  I can't wait to leave work, go home, and conquer my Ylands instance!","hours":13.4}
{"funny_percent":0.08571428571428572,"helpful_percent":0.9474973368696678,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Imagine you get lost on an yland, it would probably be rough times. In Ylands not so much, why? In Ylands you can simply do anything you want. At first you need to survive above all else, do not let the beautiful look make you look like a fool. The gameplay is fantastic, the animations are very interesting and over time you will realize clothing has no effect just against the weather. The climate system is phenomenal, should put a little envy to many AAA games out there, the lighting system also has a special touch (try to make a ship and illuminate it, you will understand) The sound system has two sides, the beautiful sound of a vast nature, non-aggressive animals, on the other hand, in a storm, ferocious animals with a desire to devour you can make you tense. In terms of buildings, your imagination is the limit!   Made by lovely people and a must buy game.","hours":249.6}
{"funny_percent":0.13333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.9720436749747595,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This is a fine game, a great addition to the survival crafting genre... HOWEVER  I have noticed that the way the game saves is confusing and unclear. When I quit to the main menu the game told me it would save. Upon reloading my game, I had lost about 30 minutes of progress. I hope this is just me being an idiot, else more people might stary complaining about this  EDIT: Fantastic job devs! The saving issue has already been fixed within the same day. That kind of dedication to getting your game to be the best it can be is what we NEED in developers these days!  Incredibly large thumbs up... Like Dan Avidan sized thumbs!","hours":5.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9354220296307099,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Ylands is, in its current state, an exploration and crafting game which promotes creativity, while also including survival aspects that are, at the moment, far too easy to make insignificant. The low-poly graphics provide a beautiful atmosphere, and this style of graphics means that more items will be introduced quicker because less time is needed to design them.  Crafting and Building  There is an extensive crafting system currently in place, ranging in everything from clothing, furniture, weaponry and crafting stations: all of which you will learn simply by crafting. Ylands gives you the unique ability to place down anything you craft or find in a free form system, further giving a personal feel to your home or settlement, and removing a complete reliance on chests to store your items. I have encountered an issue, though, that if you free place objects on objects that can be interacted with (in my case a blacksmith), then the option to pick it up again will not display. Instead you will only be able to interact with the object that it is sitting on. Placing blocks and creating structures is much more a frustrating endeavor due to the \"in your face\" grid-snapping that appears and obstructs your view when you want to place a block. What'ss more is that blocks have a time limit where they can be freely picked up, and if you do not do that within the time alloted, it is overly difficult to destroy the block. However though there are these downsides of creating structures, I have found the structures themselves to be both intricate and visually appealing once finished.   Terrain Management  Managing the terrain upon which a structure is built is quite easy. All you need are the basic tools: a shovel, pickaxe, and an axe. With the shovel you are able to flatten the surface to the same height of the tile you are currently standing on, with the pickaxe you can remove stone, and with an axe you can remove trees that are in the way. What I feel should be changed is the targetting system. When you mine a surface, the target you are looking at is not in the middle of your screen, but in a strange position hovering around the middle of it. This creates problems where players cannot see what they are mining, or even if they are mining at all. The simple solution to this is to change the targeting to match the reticle in the middle of the player's screen. At the moment this is a minor problem, but one I feel should be looked at.  Challenge  The ways in which the game seems to want to challenge the player are very easily nulled. The weather system that is currently in place seems to be almost entirely cosmetic, with the exception of snowstorms and rain storms which can freeze you to death if you are unprepared. This is easily rectified by crafting almost any sort of clothing besides the grass clothing, or placing sources of heat.  Night in Ylands is dangerous: not because there are monsters, but because it is pitch black. If you are caught without a torch or bedroll, you are in for a long night. Luckily there is the option to sleep through the night cycle. This does not, however, work in multiplayer. To provide ample heat and light, you must be strategic with your placement of light sources. Not all light sources provide the same light, and especially in a mine you need as much light as possible, because your character can obstruct light from reaching in front of you. Currently I enjoy the lighting in the game, and I feel that because of the apparent danger of getting lost at night, the developers should add both incentives to go out at night, and enemies to face you there.  In my experience I have found that both the previously mentioned temperature system, and the current enemy AI to be nothing but a nuissance: in fact, the passive AI is much more of a challenge than the enemy AI. Because of the lack of a challenge, and danger to my character, I have not found much of a reason to craft arms or armor. The only reason for me to craft a bow or a firearm thus far is to make hunting easier, and the fact that predators do not react at all when fired upon makes them that much easier to take care of. They only react if you are within a certain radius for a certain time. Passive animals are much more of a pest than predators, simply because when you attack them, they will run as long as you are within a certain radius. If you leave them on their own with the hopes that they will forget you, you are mistaken: they will always remember you attacked them. The final way the game seeks to challenge you is through a hunger system, but it is basic at most. You could eat the exact same food every day, and receive no side-effects. I believe that you should have to provide variety to your character: crafting meals such as vegetable soups, pork and beans, bread and butter, beef stew, ect.   Conclusion  I see a lot of potential with Ylands. The item list is massive, creativity is endless, there is always something to do or improve upon, and there is so much to explore. Because of all of this I could see Ylands being a good platform for role-playing, or faction wars, or both! What this would require is a larger player cap to servers, adequate chatting functionalities, and perhaps a way to form clans/guilds/groups. I have seen mentioned in other reviews that there are stuttering issues, and I have honestly only come across this issue briefly, and it did not effect my game play experience as it has effected others (according to their reviews). Something that I know to be an issue is that the multiplayer needs a lot of work. items apparently disappear, and what one person can see, the other cannot. Regardless, I have confidence that these will be fixed. The other issue which you might have is that there are microtransactions in the game, which I don't fully agree with. I have been assured though, and after looking at what you can buy, that they are all completely cosmetic. As long as the developers continue to listen to the community, and take their input to heart, I know that the game will succeed, and I absolutely recommend it!","hours":13.6}
{"funny_percent":0.011764705882352941,"helpful_percent":0.6933081245114306,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Just a few word before I get to dig in deeper:  Game looks really fleshed out for early access and $12. People complaining about microtransactions are nuts. Everything in the store so far is decoration, emotes or weapon skins. Some are even free (and they give you some coins when you start).   Locking gameplay features and functions behind mx is bad. We figured that out a decade ago. They haven't done that.  Offering emotes and weapon skins are for:   A) people that find that part of the game fun (not me), or  B) people that end up logging hundreds of hours because the game is awesome and find mx an easy way to support the development (hopefully me).  People complaining about proprietary currency like that's not the standard. I don't think I've ever even played a game that uses USD for mx purchases.   People complaining about nothing to do... gimme a break, the game just hit EA and has tons of content with a lot of unique ideas. Obviously it's not competing with modded minecraft, but nothing is. If you're burnt out on the genre, give it a break, but don't hate a duck for being a duck.   As for stability, I can play the game with few issues on medium/low graphics with a 2nd gen i7 laptop, amd 5870, 8 gb ram. I get black flickers every once and awhile, and I crashed once, so I hope they work out the kinks soon.  ","hours":10.3}
{"funny_percent":0.07317073170731707,"helpful_percent":0.8942721921339694,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Got 6 hours in the game so far and i am speechless. This game is a masterpiece! The gameplay itself is really polished and i havent encountered any bugs sofar. The soundtrack is one of the best i heard in a game atleast in an Early access Sandbox game I like how the graphics are like Runescape in the good ol days!   So to round this review up! Thank you Bohemia! A better and more in depth review is coming when i have some more hours on the game!","hours":19.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7744220292420523,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Fun and Addicting. The micro transactions are just cosmetic, so don't listen to the scrubs who say the game is a catastrophe. If you're a fan of survival, building, and exploration games, then this is one you'll want in your library.","hours":34.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8075160652296121,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW TL;DR Addicting crafting game with fun exploration, survival elements, freedom galore! However multiplayer is challenged by connectivity issues more often than not: ultra-bummer because the multiplayer is a great deal of fun!  PROS -Great single-player experience -Excellent multiplayer experience -Creativity welcome and rewarding -Doesn't feel repetative -Immersive lighting, sound effects, weather, music, and artwork. -Harvesting/Planting/Hunting/Fishing/Digging/Building/Sailing/Taming/Riding/Driving things is/are/were/fun Blah -Exploration fun timez -You don't NEED to set up a dedicated server in order to play with friends.  CONS -Poor base character customization choices (For now) -Connectivity issues can make it difficult to play with friends. (Ought to be top priority) -There seems to be an in-game store in the works for the games eventual full release... I am just always weary of these. If it's just for cosmetics and done in a way similar to say... ESO? I'd be ok with it. But if there are micro-transactions in order to be able to craft certain items and stuff that interrupts gameplay, I think it would ruin my immersion/emmersion? And I'd be done playing.    MY RANT This game is amazing! And has the potential to be even more amazing! SIDE NOTE: I, for one, am super excited for Sea of Thieves. Within that excitement I've been searching for games that will hold me over... I thought I'd give this one a shot. IT TOTALLY DOES! Playing exploration mode, building up to a point where you get to travel the seas comfortably; it's addicting.  I do have one issue with this game so far, however, and it's a large one: Connectivity issues while trying to play with friends online. The system is there, it works! You can host a game that friends can join, up to 8, and so long as the host stays online, people can enjoy the world together.  However, some of my friends have had to try logging in to my game multiple times, getting failures, sometimes taking up to 30 minutes to successfully connect. Usually, if they can complete the connection we'll be able to play for hours and be fine; it's just not very dependable yet. BUT! Saving works well.  As a single-player experience: Excellent for a chill/creative/curios mood. The universe is immersive!! The music is wonderful, even slightly chuckle-worthy while crafting; if this had large-population dedicated servers this would totally be my online home. There are so many features I still haven't even mentioned...  The pricepoint right now is more than reasonable, give it a shot.","hours":27.6}
{"funny_percent":0.09090909090909091,"helpful_percent":0.8240314714612464,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Guys, if you can't handle the fact you paid 12 dollars for a game with 1000's of hours of play time, and the fact it has skins to buy, that offer zero value in game play, than please, go pay 120+ for your AAA with buyable DLC, because you definatly know where your value is.  I personally enjoy saving money not buying a ton of skins I don't need. They could have easily charged 30 for this game incl skins and I wouldn't have bought it.  Thanks guys, for saving people who don't give a♥♥♥♥♥♥about cosmetics a break for once.   Privacy? I'm ok with them collecting information on how the games running, read your eula people, EVERYONE does it. not a big suprise. If you have an issue with privacy, lock your doors and cut off the internet.    Gameplay: Fantastic, one of the most immersive survival games i've played, the animals are a real challenge, you have to think logically to unlock crafting ect. It's glorious. Do not let the people who complain about the menu's offput you, it's simply they lack the drive or the logic to play a game like this.   Great mp experience as well, I've been streaming and playing quite a bit of this, and may do a LP alongside my regular content.   Really excited for the opportunities this game presents  For the rest of you bandwagon, witch hunting, SJW's that love the circle jerk. Please, open your mind, use your own logic, buy the game, play it, than decide. IF you go with any one of these idiots reviews with 10 minutes or an hour in game, you've only lost out yourself.   Dont be a bandwagoning peon, experience it for yourself. If I were foolish like that, I'd still be wasting money on games like COD.","hours":42.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.715931450659869,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I'll keep an eye on this as I liked what I saw, there just isn't enough here yet for me personally to sink a lot of hours in. Here's how I feel so far.  Pros: Runs smooth Beautiful af Nice atmosphere FOV slider  Cons: Confusing crafting menu UI bit clunky Building mode is awkward","hours":0.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8587765078851952,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This game is really deep, fun and awesome. It runs well, looks good and while it has some early access bugs it is pretty stable and runs at 100fps for me most of the time. Really fun to play with friends and I cannot wait to see where this one goes during its dev cycle. Anyone downvoting this game because it has cosmetic micro transactions is simply a knee-jerk reactionary. If you have some friends to play this with, and you like building/survival games give it a go!","hours":8}
{"funny_percent":0.35714285714285715,"helpful_percent":0.9054698185678871,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Made a raft to meet a friend on another island. Headed into open sea and looked for the birds overhead to mark where distant land could be. Then all of a sudden it became night and a storm rolled in, the waves got big and the two of us only had grass skirts so we quickly started freezing and my other raft mate died (RIP). I kept going and after 20 minutes finally found an island. It was not the right one, but there was a building with a crossbow and rifle. I found a horse and tamed it with some berries and decided to take it for a swim. Next thing a shark is chomping on us and quickly killed us both.  Then we both respawned and decided to not try and get to that island, but build our base at spawn. Now we are building a Galleon gun ship and have iron plated armour instead of those grass skirts.  Life is good  This game rocks","hours":22.6}
{"funny_percent":0.25,"helpful_percent":0.9123135713836559,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW At the first time I played the game, I died 173676549 time's. Why? BECAUSE THERE WAS A LEOPARD AT THE BEACH THAT WANNA BE MY FRIEND :D. Definitely not the best experience for the first time. It happens. -__- You just gonna like the game only, and only, when you understand the mechanics and crafting's guides. It's a good survival and sandbox game to people that have a good patience like me. If you don't have a lot of patience , you will not have a good connection with the game. After I saw some videos I finally could play more comfortable. The game is unoptimized and if you have a low computer , you will get some difficults at the fps. It has some buggs of course, but they are minimus. The gameplay is awesome and the controls are simple.  At the Mods, at this time I only play 1, Pirate Mod, and it's fine to.     ","hours":4.7}
{"funny_percent":0.125,"helpful_percent":0.7361393536925875,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW If you see any negative reviews about the in-game store, ignore them. The items which can be purchased are purely cosmetic and do not affect gameplay.   Honestly, my only negative so far is the fact that you can not, for example, use your bed for a spawn point, and this is very, very annoying. Apart from this the game has been very fun and challenging with a quite the learning curve.  -Update-  Another thing i have noticed, random objects laying on the ground do not despawn. I've lobbed down trees, picked up the logs and left the majority of the sticks and wood pieces on the ground. And they are still sitting there from days and days ago. I have also dumped unwanted items into the ocean and they have not despawned. So essentially i have a pile of unwanted garbage that just takes up computing power that could be used elsewhere.  Apart from this and the spawn point issue, this is a very solid game for early access and I highly reccomend it.","hours":28.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6247913129720641,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Very fun and beautiful survival game with tons of content to mess around with. Although there are quite a lot of issues with fps and bugs, the game itself is enjoyable and well worth the money.","hours":12.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8409901186299688,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Big fan of Bohemia Interactive and trust that they will take this game to the next level...  Just like ArmA this game is more CPU dependent but I have no issues with FPS unless I'm streaming while playing.  Ylands has a lot of potential and being able to play with friends makes it so much more fun. Figuring out how things work, being able to make ships, swim, fly, etc... This game is going to be a good one to own now and in the future.  And to all the EA Microtransaction cucks.. This game has **COSMETIC ITEMS ONLY** Never has B.I. done p2w. So stfu and enjoy this good game.","hours":2.5}
{"funny_percent":0.125,"helpful_percent":0.8675794895090556,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW If you see any negative reviews about the in-game store, ignore them. The items which can be purchased are purely cosmetic and do not affect gameplay.   Honestly, my only negative so far is the fact that you can not, for example, use your bed for a spawn point, and this is very, very annoying. Apart from this the game has been very fun and challenging with a quite the learning curve.  -Update-  Another thing i have noticed, random objects laying on the ground do not despawn. I've lobbed down trees, picked up the logs and left the majority of the sticks and wood pieces on the ground. And they are still sitting there from days and days ago. I have also dumped unwanted items into the ocean and they have not despawned. So essentially i have a pile of unwanted garbage that just takes up computing power that could be used elsewhere.  Apart from this and the spawn point issue, this is a very solid game for early access and I highly reccomend it.","hours":28.4}
{"funny_percent":0.0625,"helpful_percent":0.81223242424325,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Not just another survival game, Ylands has a low (but still much higher than Minecraft) poly environment which is entirely transformable. Dig deep into the soil beneath your feet and construct towering mountains with that same material. Construct cars and ships, ride horses, craft a wide variety of clothes and items, and construct whatever you like with or without a grid! Liberated from the usual constraints in these types of sandbox survival games, let your creativity run wild in a truly immersive environment. Objects can be freely placed in whatever orientation you wish, even passing through eachother to create the illusion of custom joints and the like. With a wide variety of clothing and building options there is a lot of potential here for roleplaying. Clothing and objects range from wild west cowboys to Egyptian pharaos, naval captains and pirates to medieval knights and royalty, and more. Plus, custom games within Bohemia's open framework are encouraged and supported, with dedicated servers to boot.  Great buy at the early access price. More than fair at the full price.  b d  (two thumbs up)","hours":40.1}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8223318911588822,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW if you like exploring,chill,sandbox singelplayer/multiplayer games then this one is for you!","hours":10.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8384339117202947,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Great little game, and for $12 it's well worth the price. Single player is mainly bug free as of my 11 hours in it, but MP has some issues that the Devs are aware of and working on. It's just out of Alpha, so not everything is in yet, but for what's there, it's damn solid. If you like the survival and crafting style games, this one is for you.","hours":18.9}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6767750807635243,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Ylands is a great low poly game filled with expansive landscapes, beautiful weather systems and intelligent AI. The game strives to give be a hyper realistic survival simulator where you can interact with anything in the game and use it to your advantage. Where as most survival games offer you the \"fight or flight\" option, Ylands forces you to fight for your life in most situations and this is something I love. In what world can a human outrun a panther?   The crafting system is where this game truly excels. The crafting system is very intuitive and when you finally get the materials to craft what you want, it feels incredibly rewarding. Instead of being able to just build what you want, you have to build the components and then the completed item. This adds many more hours of potential gameplay. While most materials are found in abundance others are very scarce and require time and patience to search out; such a coal.  Another things that I can appreciate is how the weather affects your character. Stuck in a cold or hot area of the game? Enjoy watching your screen strobe for the next 20 minutes while you attempt to find your way into a more 'normalized' climate. Players must constantly be aware of this and work around the conditions presented to them by either clothing their character properly, building fires, or taking shelter.   The last thing I would like to address is the exploration aspect of the game. Finding randomly generated chests or structures around the world is exciting and when you crack the puzzles requires to enter/open them it feels like you're really making progress.  All in all I would say this game is incredibly well designed and I look forward to spending many more hours pondering over the mysteries that the world has to offer.","hours":1.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6667660609129884,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Really good game so far. Most negative reviews have been about the ingame skin store. For the record not only is there no need to go to the store, Bohemia Interactive gives new players the coins needed (for free) to buy the few purchasable skins, and the rest are free. I'm pretty sure the store is only up so that they can work out any bugs with it during early access.  This game is voxel based from what I can tell much like minecraft, however voxels have a closer basic shape to emperion, and the game still has an overall better graphic quality. I've only crafted for a few hours in the game, but from the options I've already unlocked there seems to already be more crafting options than many other sandbox games. The music is enjoyable and relaxing, the animals are easy to kill, its definatley a game for relaxing by yourself or with friends.  I haven't noticed any bugs yet, but I've also only played 4ish hours so far. Its already fairly well polished already, at least on land... Sharky didn't want me to enter his territory :p. There are plenty that still needs to be added or tweaked like a basic crafting guide (couldn't figure out how to smelt ore for a while), and with those fixes I can definatley see this game surpassing even Minecraft back in its hayday.","hours":40}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.841386122052754,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Saw it online > bought it > played it > loved it.  Try it fir yourself, and DO NOT listen to people complaining about perfectly reasonable and well balanced microtransactions.   This isnt EA. Everything you can buy is cosmetical yet all future updates and DLC will be free. Sounds like a good deal to me...  The game itself feels very polished already. Good performance (heard complains, cant confirm), vibrant colors and awesome visuals, a morr challenging crafting and build system. This isnt Minecraft everybody. Crafting and proper building takes time. So far ive played about 8 hours straight and didnt finish the first storie of my house. The only reason i stopped was not because i got bored but because it was 1am in the Morning and I had to go to work 5 hours later.  I urge you again: Try it for youreself. Its such a shame that this game and its Devs are being trashtalked for microtransactions like theyre EA or something. Stop it seriously!  ","hours":9.9}
{"funny_percent":0.3333333333333333,"helpful_percent":0.6822082505861451,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Hah!  Game is awesome.  Building is fantastic! (for me, i love building, and this game brings soo much building elements, you can even place objects from your inventory - ANY OBJECTS! - items, swords, feathers etc. / Love it). You can create your own custom map! And like in reality - you have to figure everything yourself, bcs ur stranded! Optimization: I run GTX 1060 3gb / 8Gb RAM / i5 6400 - and for me - High graphics, im getting 90fps. Not stable, but very playable!  Still played only few hours so cant say anything more.. let me play more - gonna update review. But for now, love it!","hours":3.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6798107562460581,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW The game is very good. But, there is still need some fix. The gameplay is'nt quite right yet, but Im sure it's question of time before it's gonna be updated !  Graphics amazing possibilities are infinite need to fix the construction system a little more I think.","hours":10.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7147584053159718,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Really fun game Its hard when you start but it gets really awesome","hours":14.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.966019948582774,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW To think that I almost got convinced in not buying this...   Well, as of writing this review I haven't got a lot of time in, but Ylands already checks in as a personal favorite. I actually haven't felt like this since stumbling on early Minecraft alpha...   Except the world customization options are far greater, visual style is pretty appealing, and the game is showing great potential overall. Knowing Bohemia Interactive's eye for detail, I'm very enthusiastic and almost outraged I didn't stumble upon this game earlier. The workshop hasn't got much in terms of content as of now, but great potential here too.  If you're interested, I'd say don't hesitate. Do not let the paid options stop you. As of now, it's nothing essential (and I actually got coins upon starting for some reason. Did not use them, no point), and I would actually consider tossing some money the developer's way at some point given the game's low price.","hours":14.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6674505505258242,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I've played dozens of hours before the release on Steam.  This game is a very unique game. It is a sandbox survival game, but it also is whatever you make it to be. With a focus on social interaction within the frame of possibilities, it could be anything from a shooter to a roleplaying game, or even maybe just a survival experience.   Anybody who enjoys survival, building, progressing, exploring and creating will find that this game will feel like a home for all those needs. A home for you. Also for the people who enjoy roleplaying, this game could be a home for you. You can make your own missions, scenarios, stories, machines and more. Right now I do reccomend this game as it is a lot of fun, not because the effects are that great or because the graphics blow my mind, but because of the possibilities the game brings.   Right now, (for me) the game is a survival/exploring/pirate of the seven seas game. As more options and possibilities are revealed with the progress of the undergoing development I have faith that this game will become a social gaming experience beyond what we have seen so far.  Stay tuned for updated reviews as the game progresses. ","hours":1.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7478077003386274,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW So far it's pretty fun! Kinda feels like a 3d Terreria. I am excited to see what players can create in the editor. I did have some hiccups when trying to play on Ultra, other than that its been fine. Other thing I would like to see added is VoIP.  You can see my first impressions here.   YouTube™ Video: First Impression - Ylands  Views: 56 Ylands is a unique sandbox adventure game which allows you to explore your creativity. It is also a platform for making custom games, ranging from simple scenarios to sophisticated game modes.   I have an i7-6700k, Rx 480, 12gb Ram.","hours":1.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9282041851091649,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW IGNORE the negative comments about paid transactions. The paid transactions are so minor (changing how a mace looks, or getting more emotes) that they have literally zero affect on the game. Also when modding is able to be implemented, you can do WHATEVER you want!  PROS:  Fun as hell! Lots of different character outfits to discover! Crafting is learned thru you just building and discovering new recipies when you have the supplies available. Weather system already implemented at this early stage of Early Access! This is Early Access and already has a crap ton of features! Building is fun and easy! Adventuring is extremely fun(caves, mountains, random structures to be found, etc.) Lock system for doors and chests (safe for your items and good idea for store roleplaying) MORE!  CONS: (I'm sure these will be fixed eventually)  Needs more optimization with multiplayer. When you log off (at least on multiplayer) your character remains where you had him, so he can die. Put him somewhere safe!! Can't sleep at night when on multiplayer, even if all characters go to the hut and try to sleep. Server connection issues when trying to join multiplayer sessions.     Overall this game is really fun and have had it two days and already have 9 hours logged. I work full time and have a family and haven't had a chance to sit down and just grind some hours into this bad boy! I look forward to what this game brings and look forward to large servers with roleplaying implemented.  Buy this game and watch it skyrocket in person!","hours":32.8}
{"funny_percent":0.09090909090909091,"helpful_percent":0.6642116374414833,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This game is what i wnated for Years now! Exploration. Building. Survival. And a amazing cute artstyle that you just have to love. Exept if you dont like low poly stuff. Than that might not be your game..  If you like Minecraft but are tired of seeing blocks, this is for you!! If you dont like Minecraft because it looked too blocky, this is for you!! If you dont care about Minecraft, this might also be for you. It is just ease to compare it to Minecraft ;)  The amount of possibilities is hugh. And it has Multiplayer.  And it is made by a studio that at least knows what it is doing, so the danger of the typical \"2 guys make a early access game and dont continue after 5 Months\" Situation is reasonably small.  I was expecting a price of at least 20 Euros. So for me, especially for 12 (or 15 after the Weekend) Euros,  it was a fast and easy decision to buy and i still don´t regret it.  Nevertheless there are a few minor gameplay issues that i have with the game. - It would be amazing things that are placed could be carried around. So if í place a stove and i want to change the position later i would just carry the stove. It would of cause be stupid to carry something too big. But little things like a stove or a table or a basket would be amazing! Also containers! It would be amazing to carry my big pirate chest filled with gold onto the land instead of having to empty it into the inventory. - The possibility to push a big ship would be really really helpful. I needed around 20 Minutes to try to move my large ship of a riff that i didnt see. Ships are really buggy if you try to push them by running against them. I had to relog multible times because i got stuck inside and could not move. I know that big movable objects that you can stand on are a nightmare to implement because to the collision so i fully understand why it still is that buggy. But to have the option to push the ship would hopefully help with those issues.   Disclaimer: I did not yet play Multiplayer! So all of these things are based on around 14 hours of Singleplayer experience.","hours":29.7}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8836283141186944,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW The game, in my opinion, is worth more than 12 euro. By charging this they make it accessible to many. Therefore I see no issue in them charging for cosmetics.  I'm totally against pay to win items or content put in loot boxes. I avoid those like the plague.  It seems some people grab every opportunity to jump on the bandwagon of anything that contains microtransactions. Some people even buy the game to play 15 minutes, write a bad review and refund it.   Consider if you think you are being fair and that also devs have mouths to feed like anyone else.","hours":6.9}
{"funny_percent":0.5,"helpful_percent":0.8813511922542439,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This is already the best survival game I've played. To make it funnier, Microsoft is overlaying Ylands' videos with ads of their own. Nice try but you're history Minecraft!","hours":68.6}
{"funny_percent":0.05555555555555555,"helpful_percent":0.7738082860959421,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW A neat little add to the survival / craft / grind genre. The graphics have been knocked by some, but I enjoy the cartoony look to the game. Crafting / building takes a moment to get used to and is based on learning by acquiring this / building that opens that.. so at first you scratch your head a bit figuring out what goes to what. But once you get the basics in your head it flows easily.   There is also an ingame store. YIKES. But it is only cosmetic. Also since the game is SP / CoOp / MP the store is irrelevant. It just stings at first glance to see it there in a game on day one EA release. Once you play a little bit it does not seem to matter at all. It really has no effect on P2W.  It is a fully open world game. With many a twist. You can start as a sole survivor, a group etc.. build your way up with only primitive gear, or you can build fun cars, planes etc. The choice is yours and if online how your play area is setup. For me, its been the underwear start, zero equipment castaway. After fooling around a bit I ve learned how to build my basic gear, a bed, a small house and some decent tools.   I also must confess to the food. I like the food. It has fun graphics. Seeing my character eat a hamhock bigger than her head makes me chuckle. A slice of steak bigger than my body is a grin too. On that note I ve named all the sharks Bob. They look at you and have a Jaws smile which I cant help but relate to a Bob.  On launch there were problems with save games. That was patched, and tho' there were a few mentions in the Forum / Reviews of the issue still being there I have not had any problem.   A fun little switch up to the genre.  :)   Castaway's Journal: Ylands Tutorial  A Guide for Ylands By: DrunkOctopus For the faint of heart and those who hit their heads upon rocks on the way in...or for those who need answers hah! ","hours":31.4}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8017624246806554,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This game is awesome! The atmosphere and the beauty of this game really makes jsut travelling alone very enjoyable. Ignore what people are moaning about saying because it has micro transactions, if you refund for that reason alone you're stuck up and have no opinion of your own. ","hours":1.2}
{"funny_percent":1,"helpful_percent":0.6548264468640527,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This Game has a potential for a lot of cool updates in the future, but currently, all I can say is THIS IS AMAZING!","hours":4.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.7143624114551377,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Ylandคือ?  เกมEAจากทีมเล็กๆในค่ายBohemia Interactive(ค่ายเดียวกับซีรี่ARMA) เป็นแกมแนวSandboxที่มีความอิสระมากๆในการเล่น อีกทั้งยังมีระบบการเอาชีวิตรอดที่จัดได้ว่าน่าสนใจพอตัว เช่น เสื้อผ้าที่ใส่มีต่ออุณหภูมิของตัวเรา ระบบDay night cycle   จุดเด่นที่ไม่พูดถึงไม่ได้ของเกมส์นี้คือ ตัวเกมส์ให้อิสระในการวางสิ่งก่อสร้างได้แบบแทบจะไร้ขีดจำกัดสามารถปรับเปลี่ยนสภาพภูมิประเทศได้ตามที่เราต้องการ หรือจะเจนเนอเรตขึ้นมาเองก็ได้(รูปแบบคล้ายๆMinecraft)  ตัวเกมส์มาพร้อมกับworkshopที่เราสามารถโหลดแผนที่ใหม่ๆ,โหมดการเล่นใหม่ที่สร้างขึ้นโดยแฟนเกมส์ได้ซึ่งจุดนี้แหละที่ทำให้ตัวเกมส์มีอิสระมากๆ ไม่ว่าจะทำเป็นเกมส์แนวแข่งรถ ผจญภัย บลาๆ ทุกอย่างขึ้นกับจินตนาการของผู้เล่นล้วนๆ  ตัวเกมส์จะอยู่ในช่วงEAประมาณ6-8เดือนแต่สถานะของตัวเกมส์ในตอนนี้เรียกได้ว่าเสถียรมากมีบั๊กเล็กน้อย แต่เมื่อเทียบกับราคาที่มิตรภาพสุดๆซึ่งไม่ค่อยเห็นได้จากค่ายนี้(DayZ!)แถมมาพร้อมด้วยmap editorในเกมส์ งานภาพที่สบายตา เพลงประกอบที่ชิลล์สุดๆ ถ้าคุณเป็นเกมเมอร์สายSandboxชอบสร้างโน่นสร้างนี่นับว่าเกมส์นี้ตอบโจทย์ได้คุ้มค่าตัวมากๆครับ    ","hours":0.5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.636778160908123,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW This review is from my first ~4 hours or so of playing the game with my friend.  The game definitely has a lot of potential, sailing around with your mates sounds like a lot of fun and it is, however I would recommend waiting for a bit right now, we ran into a few annoying bugs and the framerate took a massive hit from playing in multiplayer.  Personally I would love to have some kind of a respawn that you could set, currently if you die on another Yland you will be sent back to the original spawn point (and in our case for some reason my friend got spawned on a random island that we had never seen before which was annoying).  I'm going to give it a positive review for now though, as I'm still having fun and exploring more of the content that the game has, I've only scratched the surface","hours":5}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9177803495636632,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I wish there was a way to remove reviews about games that complain about stupid things... like microtransactions. I played for 12.2 hours yesterday when this was released and it was amazing. The gameplay is simple yet challenging at the same time, there is one thing that definately needs to be worked on and that is melee combat, as of right now melee combat is 100% not worth using and will get you killed.   Its stupid that this game isnt getting the recognition it deserves because stupid people are downvoting it because of microtransactions that are purely COSMETIC, now people will complain \"Well you shouldnt have to pay more money to look a certain way\" which you dont... the DEV's were nice enough to give you 4600 coyns (ingame currency) which if you are enjoying the game id hold off on using until there release more items in the store), not only that but there is ALOT of clothing options ingame already that requires you to find materials and make the clothing.","hours":19.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8671943175271082,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW GOOD GAME however is a bit glitchy and needs some work done on it! Alot of potential i hope the devs dont abandon this game. At first glance the game seems simple, this is not the case. I have currently got 11 hours and i still feel like there is so much to explore and find. Starting to love this game!  -side note- the storms in this game are the most immersive part of any game ive ever played!!!!","hours":14.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6044833608019303,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I must admit, at first I wasn't too keen on this game, but the more I've played, the more I've unlocked, and the more fun I'm having. I've only really experienced single player as the multiplayer aspect of the game needs to be on decent servers before I'll go near it.  Pros: + Crafting of new items becomes available the more you collect, build, craft, etc. + Building is pretty cool, a little fiddly at times, but overall you can build some nice creative stuff + Animal AI seems reasonable intuitive and isn't too buggy + There's hats, lots of hats (crab hats, turbans, pirate hats, etc.) + You can tame and ride a horse (yay) + I actually quite like the graphics + Discovering new islands with different resources   Cons: - No respawn option (e.g. no bed/sleeping bag) - This only causes me an issue because if you discover a new island and build there, and unfortunately die, you respawn on your original island and have to sail back - I'd like items to be moveable after you've placed them (e.g. larger items such as the kiln) - Sailing is quite slow, and there are sharks (they're scary) - LAN servers are laggy at times - A few glitches with the UI  I haven't really experienced that many bugs if I'm honest, but that could be due to me playing LAN/single player, so I can't really comment. It's an early access game that cost £10, and I think it has a lot of potential. I have a feeling the community will build a lot of content for this, which will be cool, and I really hope that BI doesn't abandon the game.  There are in-game transactions for skins and pets - these things don't, in my opinion, affect the gameplay, so I'm not bothered that they're in there. Perhaps if the currency could be earned though doing achievements or tasks, this would entice more people towards getting a new skin/pet if they wanted too. As long as they don't bring out game changing microtransactions, I'll be happy!  Overall, for the 9 hours I've played, I've enjoyed it. It's a slow burner and takes some time to get used to, but once you're in, it's quite addictive!","hours":11.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8176876456865005,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW IF Minecraft and Stranded Deep had a baby, it would be called Ylands.   Much like minecraft this is a voxel game. You can terraform the land, you can build a house outta blocks, cars, ships, anything you can dream of doing you can do in this game. There is different game modes as well. Similar in ways to minecraft there is Explorer (survival) mode, creative and even editor in game and a workshop on the website where you can get what i would consider \"Modded/Edited\" maps for different game modes or scenarios.   Much like in the game Stranded Deep, Ylands Explorer mode is very similar, you survive as a castaway on a strange island, you build a raft (raft or ship in ylands) and adventure out to find other islands, exploring the world finding its 9-12 other islands (currently thats about all the islands right now) and finding all the worlds treasures and secrets.   Pro's  #1 : Dedicated Muliplayer server: I play games alot with my friends. So this was always a plus for me. As i feel this is a nice feature, free and it can be password protected, i also feel its a con as well. To explain why, You can only have about 8 people on your world at one time. Another thing i dislike about it is, lets for example say i create the mulitplayer game, I have to host the game on my computer in order for my friends to play on it. If im not on and dont leave my game on 24/7, my friends cant join. Leaving them to play there own save or play somewhere else, and not progressing futher in the world we already started. Which i find kinda frustrating. But for the fact there is even in a muliplayer option this early in the EA im happy and i consider this a Pro.   #2: Different Game modes  #3: Tamable horses because walking everywhere sucks.   #4: Caves and Random encounters hidden around the world. Its a joy to find random things placed around the map as if someone was here before. Things from random bamboo beds, huts, to plane crash sites, to random weird statues and flying eletrocuting boxes in the sky.. its all what makes this game have character.   #5: Extensive crafting/building system . There is so much you can craft, from basic survival tools to eletric lamps, to, flying contraptions, cars and ships.  #6 in-game COSMETIC microtransactions. As some might argue this as a fault in a EA game. I appreicate this. I would rather pay 15$ for a game with a COSMETIC in game shop vs 60$ AAA price. In my household my boyfriend and I play games together. We live together. Which means we have to pay DOUBLE to play muliplayer games. So we would be shelling out 120$ to play a 60$ game.. Inorder to make the game cheaper they decided to add a Cosmetic shop, and lowered the cost to play the game to 15$. I appreciate this highly! As i live on a budget as many of the world does and buy games for 2 people rather just one copy. If you want to argure this please visit this discussion, as i do not reply to review comments. http://steamcommunity.com/app/298610/discussions/0/1499000547474536191/?ctp=3  #7 Weather System. When it rains, it really freaking rains. Like Monsoon style or drizzle. Its crazy how realistic it is. If you have a camp fire lit and it starts raining hard, it will put out your fire. There is Thunderstorms with lighting, and snow storms as well.   Cons:  Its a EA game so there is expected to be bugs, so i wont list any of those. Althought they exsist i wouldnt consider any of them really game breaking. None of these cons do i find to be disturbing enough to not recommend this game.   #1 Clicking to collect items. This game should come with a new mouse, because my RMB is gonna go bad from all the clicking to harvest.   #2 Crafting system. There is a huge learning curve when it comes to the crafting system. You start out with nothing unlocked in your crafting menu. As you collect items though, things unlock. You wanna build a base? Good luck figuring out what items you need to make even something as simple as a door. The game doesnt hold your hand with this. (23hrs into the game and i still dont have a door unlocked)   #3 Map: Althought i find this to be a neat feature its also a headache. Much like the game SALT. You make is blank map, and you have to sail around mindlessly to figure out where other islands are. As you move, it opens up a SMALL area at a time. Islands are not visible until your close enough to find one. I spent a hour just saling west, and i never found a island. I ended up leaving and going to bed. Rather frustrating to sail for so long and find nothing. I think i was doing something wrong.   #4 Building. Sometimes placing stuff is a pain in the rear. It just wont line up right, or you have to be at a certain angle and move your character around for it to connect where you want it to. Building on a ship is even more difficult as the ship bobs in the water moving around so much its hard to get blocks placed where you want it to connect.   #5 Mining is kinda of a pain. You aim at a spot and sometimes it mines more right of where you wanted to actually mine. Caves are really dark and i cant see enough to know where to go, even with a torch lite.   Thats all i can think of at the moment. I would recommend this game. Try it out, if its not something you like, just refund.","hours":30.2}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.9656052888974814,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW I ran into the mast of my ship and jumped, which catapulted me up the entire length of the mast, over the crow's nest, and down onto the back end of my ship, which flipped it on end, sinking it and killing me in the process. 10/10 would RKO ship again","hours":19.3}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6691435959364657,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW So far so good for early access. Some finnicky things like performance and sub-par combat, a lot of swing and miss or swing and hope you hit something. Having fun though and I'm looking forward to seeing how much better this game will get!","hours":0.6}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.8340083332885602,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW Great game so far. just came out and is in EA so of course they will have bugs but this game has A LOT to offer. And is really fun. Just needs to not stutter and the FPS to be raised thats all really. You can ride boats and cut down trees. teraform all day long, ride horses or beat up sharks. be a native tribe or a cars sells man. OR BOTH I hope you will give it a try or at least keep it in your wish list or follow it to keep up to date to wait for a better version to come out cause this game is greatt dawwg","hours":13.1}
{"funny_percent":0.06976744186046512,"helpful_percent":0.68958443698601,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW After having played this game for a while and following quite a few series about this game, I can say that I really enjoy this game. The low poly HD artstyle is lovely to look at. The building mechanic in this game is also very creative, however tedious and grindy if playing in exploration. It only adds to the immersion though. The ship sailing and island finding is a little hard and if you don't know what you're doing you could be on the sea for an hour. Quick tip, look for the seagulls or birds, they point out other islands. All in all this is a great game and I can't wait to see what it becomes.","hours":29}
{"funny_percent":0,"helpful_percent":0.6762825273139811,"review":"EARLY ACCESS REVIEW At $15.00 ($12.00 at the time of purchase on discount) and early access, this is a great sandbox/survival game. There is a nice bit of style and charm that sets it apart from others, and performance-wise it's been smooth-sailing (no pun intended) so far.   I haven't gotten into the multiplayer yet, and I've heard many others are having issues with that and some other bugs/crashes, but so far I feel like I'm getting my money's worth. Let's hope they keep up the development and iron out all of those things before release, which is still understandably a ways off.  For early access, this is, in my opinion (obviously) well worth the money.  Keep up the good work.","hours":6}